Bianca Mlilo, Business Reporter MAX Hardware, a Bulawayo hardware company has introduced a credit scheme for its faithful customers as a way of dealing with the prevailing liquidity crunch. The small to medium enterprises sector is one of the hardest hit by the cash crisis because it operates largely on a cash basis. The company says through this initiative, it seeks to introduce competitive, viable prices for Diaspora-based Zimbabweans that would be visiting the country this festive season. Max Hardware co-director Mrs Teresa Sibanda Sithole said as a way of remaining afloat in business, they had resorted to introducing measures that would work for both the customer and the business. It s not a myth, everybody is aware of the economy and cash crisis. It is up to us as not only business people but Zimbabweans to be able to introduce measures to function. That is why we as an emerging company have introduced competitive prices and services to cushion our clientele and also to remain afloat in the industry, she said. We are now offering a credit facility which is based on the relationship of the customer and the company. Shelter is an important characteristic and people need to invest in it. As stated in the new Zimbabwean constitution, shelter is an essential need. People need to invest in property and that is why we are offering such services and products. Mrs Sithole said the credit schemes and payment plans were available to customers they have dealt with since the inception of the company. She said they had also realised a need to attract locals working outside the country as they were involved in many building projects. To this end, she said, they had embraced social media as a marketing tool which was yielding fruits for them.Mrs Sithole decried the doubling up of roles by wholesalers who had also taken up retailing and were threatening their survival. As SMEs our survival is threatened by bigger players in the industry such as wholesalers. Instead of playing the role of suppliers they have now assumed the role of being a retailer as well, she said. They sell products at cut or rather give away prices that attract customers to them instead of retail companies such as ours. This is one of the major contributing factors that limit the growth and prosperity of small businesses. We urge the government or relevant authority to urgently look into and address the matter. @BiancaMlilo