Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter Daring thieves broke into Bulawayo s Milton High School in the early hours of Sunday morning, stealing property worth thousands of dollars. They took away property including printers, public address systems and a laptop.They raided the school s tuck-shop where they took biscuits and drank Mahewu of unconfirmed value.The robbers allegedly gained entry into the school s administration block though a window before forcing open the doors and screen doors of other offices. They gained entry into the first office where the PA systems were kept. They ransacked the room and broke the door and screen doors to take out the PA systems. The thieves also gained entry into the bursar s office where they stole a printer and a laptop, said a source.It is alleged that they also gained entry into the deputy headmaster s office and searched the room but did not take anything. What is disturbing is that the new PA system was made up of very big speakers, which means that these robbers had a car. If they had a car where was the security guard, asked the source. The security guard who was coming for the day session noticed the tuck-shop s door which was wide open. He moved around to check other offices and his suspicions were confirmed. He alerted school authorities. Another source said the theft had disturbed end of year examinations at the school as some papers were still being printed.Efforts to get a comment from school head Mr Similo Ncube were fruitless as he was said to have travelled to Victoria Falls while the deputy Mr Malusi Mazibuko had also gone out.Bulawayo Provincial Education Officer, Mr Dan Moyo said he had not received the report. I doubt it s true because I was with the school head on his way to Victoria Falls he never said anything to me, said Mr Moyo.Acting Bulawayo provincial spokesperson Assistant Inspector Abednico Ncube said: We can confirm that there was an unlawful entry at the school and some property was stolen. We are urging businesspeople and in this case schools in particular to up their security as we head towards the festive season. He said the value of the stolen property was not given. There will be heavy deployment of police officers around the city during the festive season.Those caught in the act would face the music. We are also urging members of the public to work together with the police, said Asst Insp Ncube.