Andile Tshuma, Court Reporter A BULAWAYO man who allegedly stabbed his lover s ex-husband in Mabutweni suburb, leading to his death, appeared in court yesterday facing murder charges alongside his lover. Margret Komba (47) and Daniel Norman Moyo briefly appeared before Western Commonage magistrate Ms Tancy Dube.She did not ask them to plead and remanded them in custody to November 22.Prosecuting, Ms Magret Takawira told the court that on Sunday, the duo allegedly stabbed Collen Muleya on his arm. On November 5 in Mabutweni suburb, Bulawayo, Margret Komba and Daniel Norman Moyo unlawfully caused the death of a person named Collen Muleya by stabbing him on the right hand, said the prosecutor.Muleya, 52, died in the early hours of Sunday morning after bleeding from the right arm where he had been allegedly stabbed by his rival, Moyo from Mpopoma suburb.Muleya s ex-wife Komba had reportedly brought Moyo to her home around midnight and the two lovebirds found Muleya there, resulting in a fight.The house reportedly belongs to Ms Komba s late sister.When The Chronicle arrived at the house on Sunday morning, there were splashes of blood outside the house, on the walls and windows with the police having already taken away the body.Muleya and Komba s son, Mr Shepherd Muleya (24) who stays at another house in the suburb, told The Chronicle that he watched his father die as they were waiting for transport to take him to the hospital. I was at the Mabutweni shopping centre, where I work as a disc jockey when my younger brother, 17, who stays at home, came to me running. He was terrified and could not tell me what was going on. He pulled me by the hand and showed me our father lying on the ground. He had carried him from home to the market, near the shops, so that we could organise transport to take him to the hospital. All he could tell me was that he had a fight with our mother, said Shepherd. Our mother is ill and she s always in and out of hospital. They ve always had misunderstandings but I thought it was impossible for her to attack him and leave him for dead. The two failed to get transport to take their father to the hospital and they watched him die. Shepherd said his parents, who had seven children together, were no longer husband and wife although his father would visit occasionally to see his children.@andile_tshuma