Constable Mpofu Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent A POLICE officer in Masvingo allegedly took an overdose of antibiotic pills in a suicide attempt following a dispute with her married boyfriend. The officer, only identified as Constable Mpofu, allegedly fell out with Archibold Chidziva Chidara or Uche after she allegedly double-crossed him with a policeman from Bulawayo. Chidara was not reachable on his cellphone. “Sometime last week on a Saturday Constable Mpofu stationed at Masvingo Central Police had a misunderstanding with her married boyfriend. After an exchange of harsh words the three separated leaving Mpofu at her house in Runyararo West,” said a source who asked not to be named. She was rescued by her landlord. Sources said Mpofu was rushed to Zimuto Police Camp Clinic and the nursing staff saved her life when they induced vomiting. Mpofu allegedly left a suicide note – which was seen by The Chronicle – in a hand sink at her lodgings. Her landlord, sources said, forced open her room and found Mpofu groaning in pain and frothing from the mouth In the suicide note, Mpofu indicated that her alleged boyfriend, Chidara, knew why she had decided to commit suicide. “I committed suicide, nobody killed me because of reasons known by Archibold Kudakwashe Chidara (sic) though you have to spare him because he has no hand in this. My body is inside the room,” reads part of the suicide note. Mpofu listed cell phone numbers for her mother Esternrevada Kagore and Chidara who is also referred to in the note as Uche. Her mother confirmed the incident saying her daughter has recovered from the suicide bid. “I can confirm the suicide attempt involving my daughter which occurred last week. I was phoned when it happened but she has recovered and was here all along. She has gone back today to Masvingo after she was given off days at her workplace. “It is to do with a love relationship that she had with a certain man in Masvingo which according to her had gone sour. Do you want to publish the story?” said Ms Kagore on Sunday. @walterbmswazie2