Midlands Reporters TWO police officers from Gweru committed suicide on consecutive days, one by hanging and another downing a poisonous substance, both over domestic problems. Raymond Maponga, who was a sergeant, of Ascot Infill in Gweru and was deployed at the Midlands Police Operations Department, allegedly took poison on Tuesday morning following a misunderstanding with his wife Sabina over an undisclosed issue.However, close relatives alleged that the two had a misunderstanding over alleged infidelity resulting in Maponga taking his life.Obey Nduna, a constable, of Mkoba Village 15 in Gweru based at Mkoba 1 Police station committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree on Wednesday morning over a series of social problems.Chief police spokesperson, Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said: I am not aware of the incidents. I will have to inquire with the responsible stations. I am going into a meeting and will furnish you with any details related to that once I get the report. However, it is said Maponga left home at around 6.45AM and did not notify his wife where he was going. His wife phoned him at around 7.13AM inquiring on his whereabouts and he informed her that he wanted to commit suicide before hanging up, said a police source. Maponga then sent a message to his younger brother, Rodgers, whom he was staying with and told him that he wanted to commit suicide because he was having problems with his wife. Maponga asked Rodgers to look after his children before switching off his mobile phone. The brother told Sabina what her husband had said and she tried to contact him but his mobile phone was not reachable. Maponga did not return home on the day. His body was discovered on the following day at around 3PM, near Gweru River Bridge near Gweru Central Business District (CBD) and a report was made to the police.The body was taken to Gweru Provincial Hospital (GPH) mortuary, awaiting postmortem.The Chronicle is reliably informed that Nduna (25) left home at around 4AM on Wednesday.He informed his wife, Mercy, that he was going to visit a friend but took a rope which they used to draw water from a well.A relative who spoke on condition of anonymity said that at around 8.20 AM, a security guard who was manning Bata Shoe Company residential stands in Mkoba Village 19 discovered Nduna s body while patrolling the area. A security guard was doing his routine checks at Bata residential stands near Mkoba village 19 when he discovered Nduna s body hanging from a tree. He informed the police who attended the scene and ferried Nduna s body to GPH awaiting postmortem, said the source.&nbsp;