 Award winning singer and songwriter Zahara is officially a makoti. The muso revealed that her lobola negotiations have been concluded and her fiance is paying 20 cows. Zahara revealed to a daily newspaper that Amaza’s family came to her family as part of the lobola negotiation and asked how many cows and the prices of cows. The two families agreed on an amount for lobola. They signed the agreement. Meanwhile, Zahara has come out strongly to blast a Drum magazine report‚ which claimed she “lied” about lobola negotiations being concluded because she was “ashamed” and “embarrassed”. The magazine reported that sources who attended the negotiations revealed that Zahara’s lobola negotiations had not been concluded‚ as both parties could apparently not agree on an amount. The report also went on to claim that despite negotiations not being concluded‚ Zahara confirmed during a recent interview that lobola had been paid for her. Speaking to TshisaLIVE about the report a furious Zahara slammed the speculation. “I don’t know where Drum got this information from but it is false. I don’t talk about my love life. I don’t talk about my love life. And I have never commented about my love life to that publication. Lobola is a secret process. Xhosa’s will never talk about it (the process)‚” Zahara said. Even though it was something that Zahara isn’t usually comfortable sharing with the world‚ in an attempt to set the record straight‚ she confirmed to TshisaLIVE that her lobola agreement was signed. “Amaza’s family came to the house and the two families agreed on an amount for lobola. They signed the agreement and‚ like the tradition goes‚ the Ntshangas will be back to make the payment‚” she added. And as any bride-to-be would be‚ Zahara is excited about walking down the aisle in the first quarter of next year. During an interview with Sowetan earlier this month‚ Zahara couldn’t hide her excitement. “I’m very excited. It’s every girl’s dream to get married‚ especially when they are happy with the person they love and he fears God‚” she said.— Sowetan/DailySun.