The five world champions on the current grid have all secured at least one title in Brazil and on Sunday they could be joined by a sixth &#8211; if Nico Rosberg wins the race, team-mate Lewis Hamilton s hopes of an unlikely late-season comeback will be over. First, though, the German has to negotiate one of the most intense weekends of the year.The Brazilian Grand Prix throbs with a passion and fervour matched by few others.Interlagos and Sao Paulo are inextricably linked with Formula 1 even if the days of a winning Brazilian driver may be some time in the past.Brazil s first legendary grand prix driver, Emerson Fittipaldi, was born there, and his successes on the world stage laid the path for all others to follow.Ayrton Senna was, likewise, a Paulista, and is buried in Morumbi cemetery a few miles away. He was a hero to Rubens Barrichello, who grew up metres from the race track and forged his passion watching Senna there, before graduating to F1 a couple of years before his death, befriending him, and then taking up his mantle. Felipe Massa, another local boy, followed suit.The fans know the glory days have long gone, that a Brazilian victory is as unlikely as a day without a traffic jam in one of the world s most crowded cities.But still they come, packing the grandstands and singing and chanting from early in the day.What draws them there? A deep-seated passion for the sport, for one. The almost-certainty of a great sporting spectacle, for another.Interlagos has a knack for producing exciting races. Drama is synonymous with the track, not least because of its position at the business end of the season.It is a claustrophobic place. The circuit winds around a natural amphitheatre, high on a hill, the sprawl of Sao Paulo both a backdrop and crushing in from all sides. The heavy humidity, and almost-permanent threat of rain, add to the atmosphere. It feels locked in, and not just because of the cramped old paddock, a fraction of the size of anything Bernie Ecclestone finds acceptable these days.The track is a splash of vibrant green in an ocean of concrete grey and smog brown; the city butting up against the perimeter fence, endless tower blocks filling the skyline. BBC.