Richard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent A GWANDA teacher allegedly faked a school trip to Bulawayo with a Form Three pupil and took her his house for a night of sex. Shakespear Ncube, who is a Mathematics teacher at Enyandeni Secondary School in Mtshabezi, allegedly committed the offence during the school holidays in August. The matter is still pending as the girl’s guardians are seeking legal recourse. In an interview yesterday, the pupil’s guardian, Mr College Mlilo, said Ncube spent a night with the pupil. “Ncube lied to us that my niece was wanted in Bulawayo at Hillside Teachers’ College to receive a prize on 15 August for an essay competition which she had won,” he said. “Three pupils were reportedly supposed to go for the trip in a bus. However, the bus didn’t come but Ncube collected her at the school and took her to Vumbachikwe where he resides. He had sex with her overnight before returning her the following day.” Mr Mlilo said the family was suspicious and inquired from the school authorities who professed ignorance about the trip. “My niece had brought a cellphone which she said she won as a prize. The school head, Mr Peter Karongo, told us that the school had no such trip. When we quizzed the girl she confessed that she was in love with Ncube and had sex on the day at his home,” he said. Mr Mlilo said the school asked the teacher and his niece to write reports and they confessed to be in a sexual relationship. The Chronicle has copies of the two love birds’ reports in which they admitted to have faked the trip and engaged in sex. The girl’s guardians said they were worried because the matter appeared to have been swept under the carpet. “We went to the police and one Constable Banda from Gwanda Rural Police said there was no crime and directed that the girl be taken to a lawyer to write an affidavit exonerating the teacher. “This happened on November 4 this year. We suspect some undue influence on our niece as one of the female teachers, who is Ncube’s girlfriend, appears to be influencing her to save her boyfriend,” said Mr Mlilo. The guardians also showed this reporter copies of other reports the pair wrote making a U-turn from their initial statements. They alleged Ncube had approached the family to apologise and promised them three beasts. Matabeleland South provincial education director, Mrs Tumisang Thabela, could not be reached for comment as she was said to be out office. The provincial police spokesperson, Inspector Philisani Ndebele, yesterday confirmed receiving a report on the issue. “Police did their level best in the matter but could not charge the teacher as the statement by the pupil had changed. The family took too long to involve the police. The pupil may have succumbed to undue influence,” said Insp Ndebele. — @richardmuponde