Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter AMAKOROKOZA in Insiza allegedly thoroughly bashed a senior police officer stationed in Masvingo for muscling in on a gold claim that does not belong to him. The group attacked Officer in Charge Operations at Masvingo Central Police Station, Inspector Dumisani Vincent Sibanda (37) with fists and kicked him with steel-capped safety shoes leaving him unconscious before fleeing from the scene.The assault allegedly occurred on Saturday, at Village 2 Pioneer in Fort Rixon.Insp Sibanda had allegedly started mining gold at Zulu 8 Mine, without the owner s permission.Sources said he would arrive at the claim in full police uniform and order everyone to leave.On Saturday, the source said, Insp Sibanda arrived at the mine in the evening with two local villagers.He allegedly flashed his police ID since he was not in uniform. He ordered the amakorokoza who were busy at work to stop digging and come out of the pits. They obliged and left the site but returned a few minutes later. A group of them came back driving a yellow Toyota Spacio. Three got out of the car and beat him up, said the source.The owner of the mine, Mr Wilson Nyamwiwa, is said to be the amakorokoza s boss. Mr Nyamwiwa found Insp Sibanda lying in a bloodied heap when he arrived at the scene a few minutes after the assault occurred and helped him, said a witness who declined to be named.The incident occurred at around 7 PM and Sibanda is said to have made a report at Fort Rixon Police Station about seven hours later, around 2AM.He was issued with a medical report to seek treatment. I suspect that he sought treatment in Masvingo to avoid embarrassment here. Minutes after making a police report, it is alleged that he approached some policeofficer, asking what they could do to withdraw the report, said a gold panner who asked not to be named.Amakorokoza told The Chronicle that many of them had vowed to discipline the police officer the next time he came to their claims. His coming to our claims wearing complete uniform is not a threat to us. We will not allow him to abuse us simply because he is a police officer, taking what does not rightfully belong to him, said the panner.They said Insp Sibanda was in the habit of looting their gold.Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson, Inspector Philisani Ndebele said he had not yet received a report on that incident and efforts to secure a comment from Insp Sibanda failed yesterday.@winnie_masara.