Andile Tshuma, Court Reporter A Bulawayo man was yesterday found hanging from a tree at a bus stop in Emganwini suburb. The man, whose name has not yet been released by the police, is said to be from the suburb.Sources said the man was seen having a good time the previous evening as he was seen buying braai meat. The last time we saw this guy, he was at the shops just having a good time. He was buying some meat to braai. I wonder what happened next. It was very shocking to see a man hanging from a tree, someone whom you have seen having a good time just the previous day, said Lucy Nkomo, a resident who is a student at a local university.Other residents said they suspected foul play.Two women said they heard screams at night in the area. We cannot rule out foul play. Something is suspicious. This person had a blood stained T-shirt, where was the blood coming from? We actually heard screams at around midnight near this place. I doubt that he climbed the tree and hanged himself. Probably he was killed and hanged by some thugs to stage a suicide, one of them said.Emganwini councillor Norman Hlabani expressed his shock at the incident. I am shocked. This is sad. I am coming from the scene. People should never consider suicide as an option. If someone is having problems, it is better to seek counselling, talking to someone helps. Such things happen and they are quite unfortunate, said the councillor.Clr Hlabani added that taxi drivers were the first to spot the man hanging from the tree, just behind Emganwini Flea market.Early commuters gathered at the scene and some people started taking pictures which went viral on social media.He also suspects foul play. I cannot comment much on that, we will leave it to the police. However, foul play cannot be ruled out. People are evil nowadays. Besides, this thing happened close to a bottle store so it is common for fights to erupt in such places when people get drunk, said the councillor.Police collected the body at around 10AM. @andile_tshuma.