Sports Reporter HOCKEY Association of Zimbabwe (Haz) president Grant Campbell says they are relieved after securing funds for the Under-21 women to compete at the Junior World Cup in Santiago, Chile starting next week. The team got into camp last Friday with most of the foreign-based players coming in and have been working out Arundel School under the guidance of the technical team led by coach, Trish Davies.The local-based players have been meeting during weekends and Campbell said all is in place with the team set to leave for Chile on Saturday. The event is scheduled for November 24 to December 4.Sixteen countries will take part in the tournament and have been divided into four pools of four. Zimbabwe are in Pool A together with Netherlands, United States and Korea.Campbell said while they are hoping for the best for the team, there is need to be realistic taking into account the opposition they are up against. We are under no illusion, it s going to be a difficult tournament. It s going to be tough but the team work is looking very good. I think they are not going to let themselves down, they will surprise many with their standard, said Campbell.Assistant coach, Tendayi Maredza expressed satisfaction with the way their preparations are going. We are very impressed as the management because we have seen a huge improvement. We are not going to hope for much but just experience. Now we are just playing games every day with the boys teams, just fixing small things. They have improved on fitness and combinations are coming up well. We have played two games so far, said Maredza.Group B has Argentina, France, Germany and Japan while Australia, Chile, England and South Africa makes up Pool C. Pool D is made up of Belgium, China, New Zealand and Spain.Meanwhile Haz secretary general, Sarah Bennett will also be in Chile after she was appointed technical official by the international federation.TeamJordyn Clipstone, Lauren Dent, Carla Van Rheede Van Oudtshoorn, Stephanie Campbell (captain), Kelly Diplock, Jessica Dollar, Aimee Nativel, Megan Shaxson, Tyla Jo Groenewald, Chelsea Dollar, Simone Herbst, Sinead Cockcroft, Sophie Mcdonald, Estelle Stambolie, Cheryl Dzapasi, Michelle Kabaira, Simone Marchussen, Fariyah Ali Omarshah, Mufaro Mazambani.Technical TeamTrish Davies (coach), Tendayi Maredza (assistant coach), Jenna Palmer (fitness coach), Colleen Nativel (team manager).