Innocent Ruwende, Harare Bureau THE Government is set to introduce an electronic traffic system to monitor activities of police officers deployed at roadblocks in real-time, to curb corruption and ensure compliance with traffic regulations. Addressing journalists in Harare yesterday, Home Affairs Minister Dr Ignatius Chombo said the system would detect unlicensed drivers, unroadworthy vehicles, blacklisted vehicles and drivers as well as fake licences.This follows concerns raised against police engaging in corruption at roadblocks.Last year alone, 320 police officers were fired for various offences bordering on the abuse of office through corrupt activities. I want to take this opportunity to inform the nation of our plan to introduce the electronic traffic management systems (ETMS), which is now at an advanced stage. ETMS is an integrated computerised traffic system, which curtails the opportunity for motorists and enforcement officers to negotiate terms for resolving traffic infringements, said Minister Chombo. The system has the capacity to monitor activities of deployed traffic personnel throughout the country in real-time, detect unlicensed drivers, unroadworthy vehicles, blacklisted vehicles and drivers as well as fraudulently obtained licences, among several other traffic related issues .Dr Chombo said the ETMS could record accidents, generate dockets and gather statistics electronically.He said the measures were meant to reduce corruption in traffic policing and at the same time ensure compliance with road traffic regulations.Speaking on the forthcoming festive season, Dr Chombo appealed to road users to exercise extreme caution and care on the roads. This will reduce and even prevent road carnage and unnecessary loss of lives, which has become a common occurrence during such periods, he said. l would like to urge vehicle owners particularly public transport operators to ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy, and not to overload their vehicles and that they should value the lives of the people they carry to avert road carnage, he said.Minister Chombo urged motorists and the general public not to take unnecessary risks by attempting to cross flooded rivers as this would lead to unnecessary loss of lives. He also implored farmers settled along major roads and highways to take care of their livestock to avoid accidents caused by stray animals.Minister Chombo also raised concerns over the proliferation of self-styled traditional healers commonly referred to as tsikamundas as well as fake prophets. We have noted with great concern the increase in cases whereby people end up losing their lives and valuables such as livestock and cash after they fall victim to the trickery of these bogus traditional healers under the pretext of conducting cleansing ceremonies, he said. We would like to warn these tsikamutandas to stop this behaviour of conning people of their valuables. We will not sit idle and watch whilst they fleece the general public. May I appeal to members of the public to report any such cases to the Zimbabwe Republic Police so that these culprits can be brought to book and account for their actions, he said.The Minister warned Zimbabweans not to trust all prophets saying they risked losing their valuables.