Dydimus MutasaElita Chikwati, Harare Bureau PRESIDENT Mugabe last week received an unusual call from former Zanu-PF secretary for Administration and Presidential Minister Mr Didymus Mutasa &#8211; an indication that he has failed to settle politically outside the revolutionary party. Mr Mutasa is among a number of several people who were expelled from Zanu-PF for working with former Vice President Dr Joice Mujuru who wanted to unseat President Mugabe unconstitutionally.Mr Mutasa is now a senior member of the Zimbabwe People First, led by Dr Mujuru and the fledgling party is failing to gain traction since its formation early this year.Adressing war collaborators, ex-detainees, ex-restrictees, widows of fallen heroes, non-combatant cadres and war victims affiliated to Zanu-PF in Harare on Saturday, President Mugabe said he was surprised by the call and its purpose. I was told that it was Mr Mutasa who was phoning me. Then I asked, Mr Mutasa? And he said, eh, it s me President . (It s me Cde President.) Ah, It s long since we spoke, how are you? How are? And I said ah, I am alright. How is the family? Then he said they are all ok, adding that that was all he wanted to know. Is that all he wanted to hear!!? he said with a chuckle.President Mugabe took a swipe at Ambassador Christopher Mutsvangwa and his executive at the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association for misleading war veterans, and reminded the former freedom fighters that their ideology was that politics leads the gun .He said Ambassador Mutsvangwa, who was expelled from Cabinet and Zanu-PF, deserved his punishment for being an unremorseful rogue. Let us all have an ideology. We don t want those that will deviate, like what our friends in the war veterans association did. We correct them, said President Mugabe. You were warned, but you keep on repeating the same mistake, saying the party must do what you want. Is that the way we should behave? Where did you come from? Didn t you come from Zanu or Zapu where we all agreed that politics leads the gun? Do you respect the party leaders? Ah, no. You even go to the extent of saying you are being insulted. Have you ever heard a Zanu-PF cadre saying that? Who is sending you, is it Blair? Ah, we must just say we don t know what has happened to some of us. Those of us who know what s good for the nation will remain united. President Mugabe said he would continue to reach out to war veterans and other non-military cadres who contributed to the liberation struggle. We are men of the people. I am a man of the people. Your interests are our interests. Because I was with these people during the liberation struggle, I won t desert them now. We know what we are doing. We want to know which direction our party is headed. President Mugabe said the Government was committed to improving the welfare of war veterans and others who contributed to the Second Chimurenga, with authorities working on a cocktail of measures to cater for their needs.