Johannesburg NPA head Shaun Abrahams this week confirmed that President Jacob Zuma s second wife, Nompumelelo Ntuli-Zuma, remains a suspect in a case involving an alleged plot to poison her husband, her lawyer said yesterday. Lashing out at the 18-month delay since the attempted murder case was opened, Ntuli-Zuma s lawyer Ulrich Roux, said that this week s confirmation that Ntuli-Zuma, nevertheless remained a suspect smacks of some kind of agenda . We have been trying to determine what has been going on for the last 18 months. It s just a blank hole. Roux said that after a docket investigating allegations of attempted murder was opened by Nkandla police in April 2015, Ntuli-Zuma complied with a request to answer certain questions. She sent her response to the KwaZulu-Natal Hawks in June last year.After receiving no further feedback, Roux said that, in September this year, he sent a request directly to Abrahams asking him to provide an update on the investigation as well as indicate the status of Ntuli-Zuma in the matter.A letter from Abrahams, dated October 17 this year confirms, I have been advised that your client has been identified as one of the suspects in the above matter .Roux subsequently sent a letter to Abrahams on October 19, requesting further information, including what charges [have] been preferred against Ntuli-Zuma, who the so-called co-accused were, as well whether the investigation into the matter had been completed. I have to date not received any further correspondence from him, Roux said yesterday. If there are allegations to answer, why not bring her to court and test [them] in court?, he said.The delay was completely irregular, said Roux. It is unprecedented and unheard of . . . The NPA are dragging their feet. On the fourth of January 2015, Ntuli-Zuma was apparently asked by State Security Minister David Mahlobo to leave the Nkandla homestead under the guise that she was being implicated in a sensitive matter that was being investigated, said Roux.Media reports subsequently emerged of a poison plot allegedly involving Ntuli-Zuma after Zuma fell ill in June 2014.During a trip to the US two months later he learnt he had been poisoned.In August last year, News24 reported that Ntuli-Zuma and various accomplices were on the radar of authorities/Ntuli-Zuma has consistently denied any knowledge of the plot.Yesterday, Roux said that Ntuli-Zuma s main priority remained to have her named cleared. She has been co-operating from day one her reputation has suffered terribly, he said. AFP