Richard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent THE Zimbabwe National Water Authority (Zinwa) has removed faulty bulk water meters it had installed for the Gwanda municipality. The development temporarily ends an impasse over water supply emanating from the installation of the meters two months ago.Last month the water authority installed prepaid bulk water meters for the town to force Gwanda council to settle over $9,5 million owed to the water authority.It had given the municipality up to 21 October to pay up or start paying cash up front for the supply of water.However, the two parties later reached a compromise in a meeting early this month and Zinwa suspended the use of the meters until further notice. Council and Zinwa have been involved in a tussle over the control of water in the mining town.The water authority has dug out the bulk water meters and replaced them with the old ones which used to operate at the water plant.The meters were said to be faulty and were responsible for the water shortages which had dogged the town in recent weeks. Gwanda Mayor Councillor Knowledge Ndlovu yesterday said the removal of the bulk water meters will improve water supply to the town. It is true they removed the bulk prepaid water meters on Saturday. However, the removal hasn t solved the impasse because they were not removed permanently. They were responsible for the water crisis last week and their removal will improve water flow to the suburbs, said Clr Ndlovu.He said the municipality would play its part to pay what the town owes Zinwa to ensure uninterrupted flow of water. As we agreed with them, we have to first put prepaid meters at household level. We want to have a constant supply of water as negotiations progress. As council we are saying Zinwa should hand over the water treatment plant with or without prepaid water meters, he said.Zinwa is in charge of raw water bodies in the country, while local authorities are responsible for purifying and distributing the commodity to consumers.@richardmuponde.