Johannes Tshisa NgodzoSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter CHAMPIONSHIP winning Zifa Southern Region Division One league coach Johannes Tshisa Ngodzo says he was never in doubt that the title was still theirs even when they relinquished leadership of the league with a few games remaining. Bantu Rovers clinched the title in dramatic style following their 1-0 victory over another championship chasing outfit Amagagasi at Chinotimba Stadium on Saturday. On the same day title rivals Bulawayo Chiefs drew with relegated and ill- disciplined Ntabazinduma. To be honest with you I never lost hope that the title was ours, we went off rail but I still believed that we could do it. Perhaps it s because I am a former player and I understand that you have to fight to the end, said Ngodzo.He said on the eve of the game he addressed his players and told them that the Victoria Falls trip will determine their destiny although, said Ngodzo, he believed their win over ZPC Hwange was more crucial. Most of you guys might view our win over Amagagasi as the most crucial but I want to tell you that the ZPC Hwange game, to me, was the turning point. I told the boys that if we lose the match which was literally a semi-final, we were not going to Victoria Falls for the final and the boys did it. I told them that it was going to be a mere holiday in Victoria Falls, said the former Highlanders midfield maestro.Ngodzo said it actually took him half-an-hour to finally realise that he had won the Southern Region championship as he was still failing to accept that the title was his. The referee blew for full time with the scoreboard reading 1-0 in favour of Bantu Rovers, results from Ntabazinduna came through but I could still not believe that we had done it. I confirmed it when the boys started splashing me with water, it then dawned ukuthi uTshisa sekwenzile, said Ngodzo.Meanwhile, legendary Zimbabwe juniors coach Ali Baba Dube yesterday congratulated Ngodzo for clinching the Division One league title. The two met at Raylton Sports Club where there was also Zenzo Moyo, a Bosso legend and Bulawayo City vice chairman, Bosso juniors coach Gift Lunga Jnr and ZRP Bulawayo vice chairman Fiso Siziba.&nbsp;