Sizwakele NdlovuBongani Ndlovu Showbiz Correspondent TWO Bulawayo socialites Patience Phiri and television personality Sizwakele Ndlovu will add sensuality to the printed word as they host Naked Girls Reading a first for Zimbabwe to highlight women s issues. After sharing racy pictures on Facebook last week, Phiri appears intent on upping the ante by reading books in her birthday suit alongside Ndlovu at Theatre in the Park in Harare from tomorrow until Friday.Naked Girls Reading is a literary event that takes place in over a dozen international cities. At each event, a number of beautiful ladies remove their clothes and read personal selections to an adoring audience.Phiri could, however, not be drawn into revealing if there would be naked women at the event. We shall be keeping that a secret until the opening night of the event. It s just a two-women show that blends skin and text for a watching audience. The show of skin is a celebration of real women s bodies as beautiful in all shapes and sizes, said Phiri.Patience PhiriShe said the play, which she wrote, will be about issues affecting women on a day to day basis. The show is about our stories and anxieties in our professional and private lives as women. It puts in the open, subjects that are usually swept under the carpet or spoken about in hushed tones. The show has some darkness, light-heartedness and thought provoking conversations that the audience will find familiarity with, said Phiri.She said a Bulawayo show will be held soon.According to the Naked Girls Reading website, the concept began in Chicago in March 2009 as the idea of international Showgirl Michelle L amour and Franky Vivid. The idea had rolled around in their heads for a few years in different formats, but with the opening of Studio L amour in 2008, it materialised as the perfect intimate live event.After the very first event, it was obvious to all in attendance that something big had just happened, something spiritual. Immediately, the press took hold and emails started coming in from cities all over the country from ladies interested in starting their own franchise.By the end of 2015, Naked Girls Reading was appearing in 25 international cities with more to follow in 2016.Twitter @bonganinkunzi