Barbara Mzembi Miss Zim Tourism patronShowbiz Reporter Miss Tourism Zimbabwe organisers have announced dates for the pageant s provincial auditions. The first leg of the auditions will be in Harare at New Ambassador hotel on September 19 followed by Masvingo on September 20 at Chevron Hotel. Manicaland auditions will be held in Mutare at the Golden Peacock Lodge on September 22 followed by Matabeleland North in Victoria Falls on September 24. However, a venue is yet to be arranged for Vic Falls auditions.Bulawayo auditions have been pencilled for September 28 at the Rainbow Hotel, closely followed by Midlands auditions in Gweru the next day at Zimbabwe Tourism Authority offices. The final auditions will be in Zvishavane at Shabanie Mine Club on September 30.To be part of the contest, one has to have a minimum requirement of A levels with a diploma or degree being an added advantage. The girls must be between 18 and 24 years, single and have no criminal record.According to organisers, beauties with no brains will not be entertained. Less than 20 girls will be selected.Once shortlisted, the girls will travel to Harare early next month for boot camp ahead of the finale. Their activities from scouting will be filmed for a reality show that is set to be screened on ZBCtv as a build up to the national pageant. We ll shortlist only 17 girls. These 17 will go for boot camp at a private mansion. During camp, they ll undergo a lot of training and be examined.Two will be dropped depending on how they perform in the house as only 15 girls will make it to the finals, Miss Tourism Zimbabwe spokesperson, Alson Darikayi told Business Connect.Besides being given an undisclosed cash prize, the girl who will be crowned queen will be the face of Brand Zimbabwe where she will have the once-in-a-lifetime-opportunity to travel the world. The winner will get a cash prize which is life-changing. There ll also be many other prizes which include lots of extensive travel. Miss Tourism Zimbabwe will champion and support Tourism Minister, Walter Mzembi in marketing Zimbabwe and gallivant the world during Mzembi s UNWTO campaigns. A partnership between the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Trust and the Zimbabwe Agricultural Society (ZAS) will see the second princess being crowned Miss Tourism Agro. Her role will be to market the agro side of Zimbabwe s tourism. This partnership seeks to push agro-tourism in Zimbabwe. There re tourists who come to Zimbabwe specifically to sample our agriculture. They go to Chiredzi to see the processes at Tongaat Huletts or potato, maize and tobacco producers. So this girl will work with the agricultural sector coordinated by ZAS and in partnership with us, the parent ministry of tourism and ZTA. 