Felex Share, Harare Bureau WESTERN countries hand in aiding and abetting violent demonstrations that rocked the country recently was exposed yesterday when officials from the implicated embassies turned up for a media briefing called by the opposition MDC-T. What was supposed to be a media briefing later turned out to be a ploy by the MDC-T to present stage-managed narration of police brutality by alleged victims to the embassy officials.Political analysts castigated the MDC-T saying instead of parading the so-called victims to embassy officials, they should be seen filing lawsuits against the alleged police brutality since Zimbabwe was a democracy.The United States, Britain and France have been implicated as sponsors of violent demonstrations by opposition parties and shadowy groups seeking regime change in the country.Identified officials who attended yesterday s briefing were from Australia (Amanda Potter), Netherlands (Arthur Belle) while others, believed to be from the United States and Canada, refused to identify themselves.MDC-T, which has been leading the violent demonstrations in the past weeks, could not convincingly explain the role of the diplomats at the media briefing. The diplomatic community is there to represent the interests of their countries in Zimbabwe, said MDC-T spokesperson Mr Obert Gutu. When the police engage in acts of brutality, we believe it is in the interest of the international community to know what exactly is happening in Zimbabwe. This is an opportunity for the victims to tell their story to the world. MDC-T leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai and his deputies Nelson Chamisa and Elias Mudzuri, attended the press conference.The violent demonstrations by the opposition elements have seen shops being looted, property being burnt, innocent people and police officers attacked.Vehicles have also been burnt.Harare lawyer, Mr Terrence Hussein, said it was clear the MDC-T was stage-managing things to please their sponsors. If people are subjected to police brutality, one expects them to file lawsuits against the police so that the matter can be determined by an impartial judge at a court hearing, he said. Evidence will be led and most importantly, the court will require medical affidavits from a qualified doctor confirming the injuries. That is the only way such assaults are verifiable. Rushing to the press or foreign embassies leads to speculation and more questions. Political analyst Mr Goodwine Mureriwa, said the marriage between the MDC-T and Western embassies was there for all to see. They have always wanted to create falsehoods and convince the rest of the world that the situation in Zimbabwe is bad, he said. We have seen violence in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo, with deaths being recorded, but in Zimbabwe there is no single death attributed to brutality of the State. They want to magnify things and expand the horizon of their illegal sanctions. Following a wave of violent demonstrations, the Western countries have stampeded to issue separate statements supporting the protests and condemning law enforcement agents for maintaining peace and order by arresting illegal protesters.President Mugabe has since warned the embassies against meddling in local politics by sponsoring dissident groupings to subvert a constitutionally elected Government.He has on several occasions emphasised that he would only leave office at the behest of Zimbabweans not foreigners.