Tendai BitiNqobile Tshili/Mashudu Netsianda, Chronicle Correspondent OPPOSITION parties under the banner, National Electoral Reform Agenda (NERA) yesterday confirmed their western sponsorship, which the Government has said is aimed at illegal regime change. This emerged when People s Democratic Party president Mr Tendai Biti was addressing party supporters during a rally at White City Stadium in Bulawayo.Mr Biti boasted about his party s cordial relationship with United States presidential democratic candidate Mrs Hillary Clinton.He said he had a meeting with Mrs Clinton last month during the Democrats National Convention which nominated her as the presidential candidate for the Democrats in the November polls.The PDP rally which also marked the party s first anniversary celebrations was attended by Zapu leader Dr Dumiso Dabengwa and Zimbabwe People First president Dr Joice Mujuru s representative. We ve friends that you don t know we have. We enter some offices that will make you wonder how we entered them. These days we re meeting some grannies and you should at least shake my hand because it was shaking some granny running for the US presidency on 8 November. If she wins we will know that we re in, he said.Although Mr Biti did not mention Mrs Clinton by name it became clear that he was referring to her as he labelled her strongest rival, Mr Donald Trump, a lunatic.Mr Biti s sentiments confirm Zanu-PF s assertions that opposition parties are working with America and other Western countries to sponsor movements bent on illegal regime change.Mr Biti said Zimbabwe needs financially strong friends who can rescue the country from its economic problems.However, Zanu-PF has been advocating for home grown solutions to the country s problems.Opposition party leaders vowed that they would continue with violent protests to unconstitutionally remove President Mugabe from power. Dr Dabengwa in his solidarity message urged youths to flood the streets and engage in public violence against the Government. As youths, we took up arms against the Rhodesian government and succeeded in dislodging the repressive Ian Smith regime. It is now up to you as youths to go to the streets and continue with protest. We have reached the twilight age and we need you to be at the forefront and we will closely follow behind, he said.PDP vice president Dr Samuel Sipepa Nkomo weighed in by saying people power was the only tool at their disposal to unseat President Mugabe. It is my firm belief that God s heart is broken because of the plight of the people of Zimbabwe. Since 1980 Mugabe has been destroying the country, he said.Dr Sipepa Nkomo tried to use the Matabeleland political disturbances of the 1980s to drum up support for his party.He said Dr Mujuru was supposed to be at the event but fell ill and could not attend.She was represented by Ms Buyalani Dube the ZimPF s provincial chairperson for Bulawayo.PDP secretary general Mr Gorden Moyo blamed President Mugabe for social ills and health problems affecting people. @nqotshili