Minister Oppah Muchinguri-KashiriBusiness Reporter THE 2016 Water Sanitation, Hygiene and Energy (WASHen) expo begins in Bulawayo tomorrow with a focus on harnessing innovative solutions for positive outcomes. WASHen, is a sector-specific exhibition, which is in its third year-running and is organised by the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) Company in partnership with the Netherlands Development Organisation (SNV Zimbabwe).Environment, Water and Climate Minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri will be the guest of honour at the two-day event. The 3rd edition of WASHen will see the introduction of Practitioner s Forums where professionals working in the hygiene and renewable energy sectors can meet for the exchange of views, knowledge and information, ZITF Company marketing and public relations manager Ms Stella Nkomo said. The forums have been borne out of the realisation that just knowing how to do the work is insufficient. Practitioners must also have skills in mobilising resources and managing the relationship with clients. This year s WASHen runs under the theme, Innovative Solutions, Positive Outcomes, and will centre on three thematic areas namely public-private-partnerships in WASH infrastructure development; climate change, WASH and clean energy; and information communication technology for development.Ms Nkomo said on the first day, WASHen will host a practitioner s forum on menstrual hygiene management. Expected participants are donor organisation representatives, implementing partners, local authorities, community members as well as representatives from the Ministries of Health and Child Care, Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development and Rural Development, Preservation and Promotion of Culture and Heritage, she said.The following day will see the hosting of the renewable energy forum to discuss opportunities for private sector participation for mini grids in Gwanda. Representatives from the Gwanda Rural District Council will present the available opportunities while representatives from central government and the regulatory authority, the Zimbabwe Energy Regulatory Authority (ZERA) will clarify the policy issues, she said.Ms Nkomo said all was now set for the water, sanitation, hygiene and energy conference and supporting exhibition. Invited delegates include representatives from central and local government, non-governmental organisations, business and civic leaders and other interested stakeholders. Exhibition space is also still available and organisations supplying water, sanitation, hygiene and energy products and services or running relevant projects are therefore invited to showcase their activities and wares to delegates at the WASHen 2016 expo, she said.