Rev Togarepi ChivaviroDanisa Masuku, Showbiz Correspondent REVEREND Togarepi Chivaviro has successfully launched two books and an eight track DVD album. Rev Chivaviro launched the DVD album Mhepo Inoperekedza and the books Interpreting Your Own Dreams written by him and Unlimited Grace written by his wife Juliet in front of over 300 people.The launch was held at the New Creation Life Ministries in Bulawayo on Tuesday night.Hilarious radio personality Omphile Marupi kept the crowd through rib cracking jokes.The DVD album, which has scenes shot in Zimbabwe and South Africa, sold for $2 and 275 copies were bought on the day. All the 250 copies of the books sold out.During the launch fans had a chance to watch the whole DVD that has tracks such as Zvichanaka, Mercy re-wrote My life; Handinyarare; Chikomborero; Vana va Mai varopafadze; Peace, Love and Hope and the title track Mhepo Inoperekedza.The track that touched attendees was Vana va Mai varopafadze.One of them, Faith Nkomo explained how she was touched by the song. The song reveals that women play an important role in society as they nurture and groom and I ve realised that some of us neglect them. They shape our characters as they spend most of the time with us instilling values in us that mould us to become who we are, she said.In the remix of the hit song Ebenezer, Rev Chivaviro features his fans from different countries sing the track in the video. He also re-recorded the video of his song with the same artistes in the previous version such as Baba and Amai Charamba, Noel Zembe, Pastor Haisa, Rumbi Zvirikuzhe, Bethen Pasinawako and Baba Mechanic Manyeruke.The song proved to be a crowd favourite as they danced and sang along to it. Rev Chivaviro expressed gratitude to Bulawayo fans as they bought all the books. I would like to appreciate the love shown by Bulawayo fans as they supported us in a great way. The 250 books of the two copies that we had brought were all bought, he said. I wrote Interpreting your own Dreams to inspire believers to have a firm belief in the Word of God as it will assist them in interpretation of their dreams. His wife Juliet said her book Unlimited Grace was meant to make people realise the grace of God upon their lives. I based my title of the book on the theme of the song Ebenezer, as it made me to realise the grace of God upon our lives, she said.Entertainment at the launch was also provided by Pristly Sibbs, Roe Makawa, SOG and Bongani Ndlovu. Damo Zamar Ncube, who was expected to perform, failed to come due to other commitments.@dannymasuku