Stanley ChirambadareSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter LEGENDARY Dynamos defender Stanley Chirambadare says showboating by Highlanders players when playing at Barbourfields Stadium has been their biggest undoing. That, he said, was the reason DeMbare have always managed to grind a result against them at the venue.The fiery former Dynamos left-back believes this weekend s epic encounter, dubbed Operation Double or Revenge , will be won by individual brilliance from both sets of players.Highlanders are looking to complete a rare double over Dynamos for the first time since 2006, while the Harare giants are out for revenge. Bosso dismissed the Glamour Boys 2-0 in the first encounter in May after 10 years of trying in vain to collect maximum points against their fiercest rivals. These games usually separate the boys from men and he who needs it more will get it, said Chirambadare, who played alongside some of the most decorated players at DeMbare, among them Memory Mucherahowa, the late Francis Shonhayi, Clayton Munemo, Peter Fanwell, Leo Ntawatawa, Laban Kandi, Elvis Chiweshe, the late Edward Katsvere, Claudius Zviripayi, Vitalis Takawira, Nyasha Kanogoiwa and Henry Chari.Their duels with Bosso were always a marvel to watch and would have a star rising to single-handedly change the tide of the game. Highlanders usually lose their home games because they tend to over elaborate before their home crowd. During our time, every game we played was a cup final and we had to train hard to please our so-hard-to -please fans. Also, just keeping your jersey was paramount and each game was an opportunity to shine. We had something among us that comes from playing together from the reserve team into first team club culture, said Chirambadare.The two giants will be meeting for the 32nd time since 2001. Dynamos have won 13 and drawn 12, while Bosso have won just six, including this year s reverse fixture, which came courtesy of goals by Bruce Kangwa and Prince Dube.Bosso will be hoping to repeat the 2004 and 2006 performances in which they posted back-to-back victories over their Harare opponents.However, Chirambadare warned Highlanders, saying his former club seems to have remembered how to win. Dynamos are on a roll; they seem to have remembered how to win again. Both teams have talented youngsters, but individual brilliance will carry the day, said Chirambadare.Both teams go into Sunday s encounter on the backdrop of morale boosting wins, with Dynamos chalking up a 1-0 home win over Chapungu, while Highlanders fought to the death for a 2-1 win over a determined Border Strikers in Beitbridge in a match that saw Nhlanhla Ndlovu ending his goal duck for the Bulawayo giants since joining them in July.The match has already drawn excitement around the city, with talk in commuter buses, as well as other social spots being centred on it.@skhumoyo2000