Some of the artistes perform at the Dance Fiesta at Club 263 in ByoNhlalwenhle Ngwenya THE Bulawayo Dance Fiesta that was held at Club 263 last week has given zeal to dance groups who flocked the venue in numbers to be part of the inaugural show. Over 20 dance groups participated in the event, which according to organiser, Harpers Mapimhidze, was held to save the dance industry from collapse.The visibly excited dancers from Ezimnyama, Magesh, Beauty Queens, Dynamite Chicks, Mario Crew, Sungura Masters, Jaiva Kings and Fusion among others, used the opportunity well as they tried by all means to outpace each other.Their energetic and gravity defying moves saw them win hearts of revellers who supported their favourite groups by tipping them. Some even tossed $20 notes.Despite the city having many dance groups, nightspots have in the past years failed to accommodate them, a move which has seen the city losing its talent to Harare where there seem to be better opportunities. Mapimhidze who is the Dancers Association of Zimbabwe president said he wanted to fix things hence his initiative of introducing a dance fiesta in Bulawayo.Club 263 will be the home of the fiesta with plans to make the event monthly underway. This is the first time we brought together 20 dance groups. The aim is to identify talented dancers and promote them, said Mapimhidze. It s public knowledge that Bulawayo has a lot of talent. What s lacking is the support hence I m giving the dancers this platform. Mapimhidze, who is co-ordinating the dance fiesta with Devine Assignments organisers of the Jam Session, said he was impressed by the response he got from Bulawayo dance groups. The overwhelming response from dance groups and those who came to watch shows that the city has been yearning for such an event. He said plans were underway to host a national dance competition where dancers from Bulawayo would square up with those from Harare. In about three weeks, we ll hopefully hold a national dance fiesta. We re still working on the logistics and trying to see if we ll hold the event in Bulawayo or Harare. I, however, prefer that it be held here. &nbsp;