Richard Muponde Gwanda Correspondent TWENTY-three opposition parties supporters on Thursday defected to Zanu-PF in Gwanda South at a meeting chaired by the constituency s legislator Cde Abedinico Ncube. The 23, four from Zapu and MDC-N as well as 19 from the MDC-T, defected to Zanu PF at Matanangombe area in Gwanda. They said they were tired of opposition parties empty promises. Cde Ncube, who is also Rural Development, Preservation and Promotion of Culture and Heritage Minister, told the defectors that as a party they were very happy to receive new members.He said Zanu-PF was the only party that carries people s aspirations. As Zanu-PF we know that there are a lot of people who are lost and if they come back we will receive them with open hands. You know the story of the prodigal son who after spending all his riches and started living in squalor. He came back to his father and apologised and a feast was held for him. This is the same situation with these members, said Cde Ncube. So we are celebrating and we are encouraging them to come back to the party for good. We know people tell lies that Zapu is still in existence but the only Zapu we know was that led by Cde Joshua Nkomo and it united with Zanu (PF) to form Zanu-PF. Those who call themselves MDC, MDC-T and ZimPF are people who are just hungry for positions and playing to the whims of their Western handlers. He said the new members should follow the party line and rally behind President Mugabe in the 2018 harmonised elections.Cde Ncube said the party would start a door to door campaign in his constituency to recruit more members so as to strengthen party structures ahead of the 2018 elections. The campaign will done in the villages of Gwanda South. People should work together as a unit and desist from fighting for positions as that weakens the party. Our centre of power is President Mugabe. Morgan Tsvangirai and Joice Mujuru are here to divide us. We want to build cells and also support our party and government, said Cde Ncube.The meeting was also attended by Matabeleland South Zanu-PF provincial executive members.