Donna McMahonA woman who suffered from a phobia of water has beaten her fear and had her first shower in 30 years. Donna McMahon was terrified of water after an incident on holiday when she was just five years old.The 35-year-old was petrified of water going over her head, and has spent decades taking an hour to wash her hair in small sections while only in a shallow bath.Now, thanks to hypnotherapy, she has beaten the fear after 30 years.Donna, from Liverpool, spent 30 years allowing her fear to control her life, avoiding swimming baths and beaches. My life has improved so much in such a short period of time, I often visit our local swimming baths, Europa Pools Leisure Centre, in Birkenhead, without any problems at all. The hypnotist, Robert, managed to find the cause of my water phobia, it was an incident that happened when I was five. I was on a water slide and another child pushed me down it and I was panicking the whole way down as I didn t think my dad was going to catch me and that I was going to drown. I became so upset afterwards that I ruined the whole day out and ever since I created a huge sense of anxiety in my own head every time I thought about water. I feel so relieved now I can get on with my life without the irrational fear hanging over my head. Donna cannot believe that 30 years worth of fear and worry has been resolved in just one hour with hypnotist Robert.The pair spent a further two hours visiting different locations surrounded by water to help combat the anxiety once and for all.She added: I can t believe my life long problem was solved in one hour, I never imagined in my wildest dreams that I would actually be able to go under water and not be petrified. I knew I couldn t allow my fear to take hold for any longer, the older I was getting, the worse it had become. I was having such shallow baths that the water would barely touch my legs, it s such a relief that this chapter is over. I could not thank Robert enough for how he has transformed my life, I would recommend him to anyone who has a phobia, he has worked miracles on me. The Hypnotist Man, Robert Hisee, said: When I first met Donna in March she was very nervous about the whole process as she didn t know what to expect. She told me about her childhood horror at five years but I soon realised the problem came from her visualising a scenario that never happened. Donna was panicking that she was going to drown but her dad caught her at the bottom of the slide. Using my unconscious mind therapy techniques that I have created over the course of 10 years, I was able to remove the feeling with hypnotic language and breaking her belief of thinking every time she went near water she would drown. After that I took her to the River Mersey and I guided her through the processes of recovery. We then went to the swimming baths and she was able to place her hand in the water and she was fine. And that evening she took her kids swimming and she was sending me pictures of them swimming. It was amazing, she was able to put her head under the water and for 30 years she had a shower. DailyMail