Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu VILLAGERS from Tshitshi Ward in Mangwe District are raising money to install a piped water system to address a water shortage in their area that has seen pupils bringing the precious liquid to school from home. The area s councillor, Mrs Sindisiwe Nleya said villagers were in the process of installing a five kilometre pipeline from Ramokgwebana River to Mzila Village and a seven kilometre pipeline from Tshitshi Primary School to Tshitshi Business Centre and Tjingababili Primary School.She said some schools in the area did not have water and pupils were forced to bring some from home. We are in the process of mobilising resources to install two pipelines in order to address water challenges. Most villagers in the area don t have boreholes and as a result community members dig up in Ramokgwebana River in order to reach water. We are working on Mashasha pipeline which is five kilometres long and Tshitshi pipeline which is seven kilometres long, she said.Mrs Nleya said villagers had each contributed more than $50 towards buying pipes and cement for the Mashasha pipeline. She said the pipe works had been completed and villagers were now waiting for an engine which was going to be donated by the District Development Fund (DDF). Villagers have been providing labour to install the pipeline while DDF officials helped with technical advice. They also promised to donate an engine which will be pumping water and 10 bags of cement. The pipeline will be supplying water to Mzila Village. Community members there are making plans to instal taps in each household so that they can access clean water. The river is dry therefore we are using the sand abstraction method, she said.Mrs Nleya said villagers also had plans to establish an irrigation scheme in the area. She said the Tshitshi pipeline project required 1 200 six metre PVC pipes but villagers had managed to buy about 100.She said villagers were expected to contribute $3 per homestead towards the project but a number of community members were failing to raise the money. Under the Tshitshi pipeline the water will be drawn from Tshitshi Primary School to Tshitshi Business Centre, Tjingababili Primary School, to several homesteads including the chief s and to a dip tank within the ward. Villagers are struggling with this project. We have sent proposals to various stakeholders seeking funding but without luck. This pipeline is crucial because it will address water challenges being faced at Tjingababili Primary School, she said.Ramokgwebana River had the capacity to supply three wards with water and community members wanted to utilise it to the fullest.@DubeMatutu.