Winky DPeter Matika, Showbiz Reporter THE Delta Beverages Golden Pilsener Afrofusion Concert featuring two of South Africa s prominent female artistes DJ Zinhle and Queen of House Bucie, is scheduled to roar to life this Saturday in the City of Kings. The concert will be held at Queens Sports Club and will also feature Zimbabwe s King of Dancehall and Ninja president Winky D.The artistes have already confirmed participation and have actively been promoting the show on social media.DJ Zinhle posted a video on her social network sites while Winky D also posted a video urging Bulawayo fans to attend.In a statement, Delta Beverages marketing manager Patricia Murambinda said Golden Pilsener has had a long and successful history in music, mainly through its involvement with the Harare International Festival of the Arts over the years. The Golden Pilsener Afrofusion Concerts are new and fresh to the brand and are set to be one of a kind shows, bringing in a unique fusion of artists and music, said Murambinda.Scroll down to watch VideoBoth concerts showcase prominent and established regional artistes as well as the hottest local acts with music from the continent blended in with other popular genres. Afro-fusion is a genre which blends traditional African rhythms with contemporary music to create a hybrid music style. We invite all to come and experience a memorable night not to be missed while sipping on the legendary Golden Pilsener, said Murambinda.The Harare gig, which was held at Belgravia Sports Club, featured Bucie, DJ Tira, local superstar Jah Prayzah, Ammara Brown and backing DJs. In Bulawayo on the 17th of September, DJ Zinhle, Zim-Dancehall Living Legend and Ninja president Winky D, SA s Queen of House Bucie alongside Djembe Monks and DJs Slamma, Liz and Babongile Sikhonjwa will be performing. Cover charges for regular access are $5 and $10 for VIP access, said Murambinda.She said advance tickets were available. Advance tickets will be available at the following outlets, Bootleggers in the CBD, Stunts, The Lounge, Cubana, Chicken Corner, VS Bottle store in Nketa 7, Isibaya Sports Bar Mpopoma, Blue Turkey Sports Bar, Fourwinds, Mungas Mpopoma and Edgars, Murambinda said.Golden Pilsener is the flagship brand in the Premium Beer Category. What makes Golden Pilsener distinct is its unique ingredient of the SAAZ hop, and a brewing process that has been perfected for decades. The masterfully crafted Golden Pilsener brew has been internationally recognised and awarded with two Monde Selection Gold awards in 2013 and 2015 to bear testament of the brand premium quality. Golden Pilsener is positioned as a beer for the unique and discerning individual. These individuals are who we call Legends, as they have an unquenchable thirst for success and are leaders in their various fields. Golden Pilsener sits comfortably in this position as it is a legend in its own right, added Murambinda.@peterkmatika