Wynne Zanamwe, Midlands Reporter A 26-YEAR-OLD man from Somabula has been sentenced to an effective 50 years imprisonment for raping a 68 year old grandmother. Isheunesu Dzingiso of Plot 15 Julena in Somabula pleaded not guilty when he appeared before magistrate Mr Morgan Nemadire facing one count of unlawful entry, one of assault and five of rape.Dzingiso was sentenced to 60 years imprisonment on all the counts, but 10 years were suspended on condition of good behaviour.For count one and two Dzingiso was sentenced to 10 years in prison and for counts three to seven he was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for each. He will spend an affective 50 years in jail.Prosecuting, Mr Guvheya told the court that on September 13, the 68 year old woman was alone at her homestead when the accused broke into her house.He said Dzingiso gained entry into the complainant s bedroom by damaging the door hinge. At around 12AM the accused found the complainant standing by the door and forced her to sit down but she managed to pull Dzingiso s legs and he fell down. Dzingiso rose from the floor and started to assault the complainant with open hands and fists several times on her face, said Mr Guvheya. He grabbed the complainant s neck and started head butting her on her forehead several times. The court heard that the granny suffered some bruises on her neck and face.Mr Guvheya said that the complainant then fell unconscious due to the attack. The accused then lifted the complainant s dress and removed his own trousers before he raped her, he said.Dzingiso also tore the complainant s dress and raped once more through the anus. He is alleged to have had sex with her for five times and stopped when she urinated. The accused covered the complainant with a blanket and told her to go to sleep. However, she managed to sneak out of the house and ran to her neighbour s house and reported the matter. The neighbour teamed up with other neighbours and found the accused asleep in the complainant s bed and tied him up, said Mr Guvheya.The accused was taken to the police station the following day and the complainant was referred to Gweru Hospital for treatment.@wynnezane.