Witness Ndux Junior MalabaMkhululi Ncube/Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Reporters It s not easy for sons of prominent musicians to divorce themselves from their parents illustrious careers when they try to venture into the field, but Ndux Junior, son of the late legendary musician Ndux Malax has mastered the art and grown to be his own man. When Ndux Junior (real name Witness Malaba) took over his father s (Nduna Malaba) rich musical legacy, many would have dismissed him as a novice who had no future, one who would not be able to follow what his father had achieved.After his father s death on March 6, 1996, the band went into a hiatus with some members such as Morgan Moki Ncube, Khumbula Mhlanga, and Sidney Dube (both late) forming Mokis Connection.When Ndux Junior came of age in 2006, together with his late father s lead bass guitarist Fredrick Ndlovu, they rebranded Ndux Malax s band Tahangana to Batshele Brothers.Ndux Junior has over the years managed to carve out his own career and have his distinct sound as he has stepped out of his father s shadow to become a musician in his own right. The generation that I play for and the generation that my father played for are different and unique in terms of what they want. That s the only change that I ve done to my music, said Ndux Junior.The former Air Force of Zimbabwe member said he mastered the art of playing the lead guitar over the years. Teaching myself to play the lead guitar has made it easy for me to adjust my music to the sound that I want without being controlled by anyone. I started changing my sound on my fifth album after I d a talk with university lecturers who were critiquing my music. When Ndux Junior started his career in 2007 with the album Sengikhona, announcing his arrival in the industry, he had more of his father s fast paced beat characterised by a distinct talking lead guitar with the trade mark Batshele! chant which he sometimes overused in his songs.But listening to his recent album Uthando Luyingozi , one can not dispute that Ndux Junior has found his mark as he no more relies much on the talking guitar and even coming up with his own chant Shakie! One has to listen to the album to appreciate the good things that he has done with the guitar. On this album I took my time to perfect it and this was helped by the fact that I ve been with my band members for more than five years. I give them the platform to give me their views because we re working for one company, said Ndux Junior.The Kezi-born musician said fans loved the new sound and encouraged them to produce more. Fans have greatly appreciated the hard work we put on the album which addresses various issues that affect them daily. They re urging us to continue in this rich vein of churning out good music that has a social message, said the pint-sized musician. The growth has however not detached him from his father s social commentary and humour which seems to be the mainstay of the Malabas brand of music. The arts are a Malaba family talent. It s not confined to one person as my father learnt it from my grandfather and so on. We ve other Malaba family members who re good at playing the Kalanga traditional music and are very popular in Kezi. They are called the Pamanis, said Ndux Junior.The song Satanism off the album Uthando Luyingozi castigates modern day prophets who are in the news for raping and swindling congregates of their money. Using humour, Ndux Junior mocks some churches names and he throws his own such as Madlabuzane Ministries International, Financial Power Ministries, Jesus is Great Financial Ministries Ambassadors and Murambatsvina International Ambassadors. An idea comes to mind and after that I do a lot of research on the idea to come up with lyrics for the songs. I observe everything in society like on the song Satanism I see people flocking to churches hoping for positive things. But, when they get there pastors and prophets con them, said Ndux Junior.Looking at the amount of bands that sing Rhumba music in the Matabeleland region which are well over 100, Ndux Junior had to reinvent himself in order to remain relevant in the industry, because of the stiff competition.