Dalton MuleyaTanaka Mrewa, Court Reporter A SENIOR Zimbabwe National Army official sustained a wound on his thigh after he was shot during an argument in a love triangle. Dalton Muleya (49) head of the recruiting depot at Imbizo Barracks, Bulawayo, told a court he felt justice was not taking its course following his injury.Takesure Mbano (38), Muleya s love rival pleaded not guilty to an attempted murder charge.Bulawayo Regional Magistrate Mr Chrispen Mberewere remanded Mbano out of custody to September 22.Prosecuting, Mr Simbarashe Manyiwa told the court the shooting occurred on August 9, 2009 at Sarah Chauke s homestead at Juta Village under Chief Sitaudze in Beitbridge. The two had a confrontation after they discovered that they were both in a relationship with Chauke. During the quarrel accused produced a pistol and fired three shots. One of the shots hit the complainant on the thigh, said Mr Manyiwa.Mbano s lawyer, Rumbidzai Venge of Mambosasa legal practitioners, said Muleya fired two shots in the air after shouting at Mbano telling him he wanted to shoot him. Accused was with Chauke at Lumumba where they were watching soccer. He noticed complainant from the crowd as he was drinking heavily and dancing. After the match he drove off with Chauke but complainant followed them for about 8km, said Miss Venge. Accused disembarked from his vehicle to ask complainant why he was following them but as he approached, complainant got out of his car armed with a pistol shouting that he would shoot the accused. He fired two shots in the air then pointed at the accused s chest. Miss Venge said Muleya panicked as Chauke s neighbours rushed out to witness the chaos. She said Mbano seized the opportunity and disarmed Muleya then drew his licensed gun and shot him on the thigh.Muleya disputed the defence s claims.He said he had no firearm on him and Mbano had attempted to kill him. From my training you only shoot to kill there is nothing like shooting for defence. If I had a gun on that day I would be the one standing in the accused dock right now. Besides, I have to be incapacitated for one to disarm me, said Muleya.Miss Venge said it was feasible that Muleya was incapacitated because of the alcohol he had consumed, hence Mbano was able to disarm him. @tannytkay