Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree CorrespondentA 40-YEAR-OLD Plumtree Town Council worker allegedly raped his daughter s nine-year-old friend and gave her 50 cents to buy her silence. Tjidzani Sibanda who is stationed at the Plumtree Council Water and Sewer Department and stays in George Silundika suburb allegedly called the girl into his bedroom while she was playing with his daughter.Sibanda appeared before Plumtree magistrate, Mr Gideon Ruvetsa facing a rape charge.The magistrate remanded him in custody to September 16.Prosecuting, Mrs Rose Sibanda said Sibanda committed the offence on August 31. The juvenile was at Sibanda s house playing with his daughter and other friends. Sibanda called the girl into his bedroom and he raped her once and gave her 50 cents to stop her from reporting the matter, she said.Mrs Sibanda said the girl reported the matter to her parents resulting in Sibanda s arrest.In another incident a 41-year-old Bulilima man was sentenced to 18 months imprisonment for bedding his workmate s 13-year-old daughter.Mehluli Ndlovu who works at Mbokodo Butchery in Figtree told the court that the juvenile was his girlfriend.Plumtree magistrate, Mr Livard Philemon convicted Ndlovu on his own plea of guilty to having sexual intercourse with a young person.He sentenced Ndlovu to 24 months imprisonment but suspended six months on condition that he does not commit a similar offence within the next five years.In passing his sentence, Mr Philemon lashed out at Ndlovu for violating a young child. You are a grown man and you say your eldest daughter is 12-years-old. How would you feel if a man of your age ravished your daughter just as you have this juvenile? You are a danger to the society because you take advantage of young children, he said.Prosecuting, Ms Mavis Gwafa said Ndlovu started having sexual intercourse with the girl from April and her mother discovered the offence in August. In April Ndlovu proposed love to the juvenile. He invited her to his house where he had sexual intercourse with her. He further invited her several times to his house where he continued to have sexual intercourse with her. On August 18, the juvenile s mother became suspicious. She questioned her daughter who later revealed what had transpired between her and Ndlovu, she said.Ms Gwafa said the matter was reported to the police resulting in Ndlovu s arrest.@DubeMatutu.