Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter UNITED Kingdom-based former Dynamos centre half Chamu Musanhu has come out in support of eccentric goal minder Tapuwa Kapini over the suspected undue influence of player agent Gibson Mahachi in national team selection. Musanhu, however, feels the concerns should have been raised much earlier.Kapini, who now keeps goals for newly promoted South African Absa Premiership side Highlands Park, alleged on Tuesday that national team players were not picked on merit, but on Mahachi s preferences.The player agent controls more than 90 percent of the Warriors players, as well as coach Callisto Pasuwa.Musanhu said these revelations have come at a very sensitive time when the nation should be looking at resourcing the team for the 2017 Total Afcon finals in Gabon, although Kapini, who made two Afcon finals appearances, has a point. It s a good point raised by Kapini. These things have been happening for a long time, but I personally feel it s not the right time. What we need now is to support these guys who have done us proud, said Musanhu.Efforts to secure a comment from Mahachi failed again yesterday. Musanhu said there were similar concerns during their time when some supporters accused the late Dream Team coach Reinhard Fabisch of picking players from Highlanders, while continuously ignoring the likes of Memory Mucherahowa and Moses Chunga. People will always complain; not everyone can be satisfied with the national team selection process, hence the prerogative lying with the coach. We had fans accusing Fabisch of a whole lot of things, but as players we understood why he picked those players. It was on merit, but for an ordinary supporter it s something else, said the former Dynamos defensive stalwart.However, during the Dream Team era, player intermediaries were not common is Zimbabwe, with only Peter Ndlovu being represented by Winston Makamure. Yes questions will always be asked when the majority of players come from one kraal, but what if they are good? Let s concentrate on our preparations for the finals and give credit to the players for taking us there, said Musanhu.Meanwhile, Kapini has refuted claims that he was jealous following his sensational claims. I have nothing to prove anymore. I have done my part for the national team and am proud of it. I can t begrudge youngsters simply because I want to be called into the squad, but I must not be silenced when I see something wrong, Kapini said.@skhumoyo2000.