ON a clear sun-drenched day, Zimbabwe s two biggest football clubs Highlanders and Dynamos reminded the nation how the beautiful game can be a tool to unite people and put smiles on their faces. With a television audience running into millions across Africa and the world the country s football ambassadors exhibited a classic game which will go down the annals of history as one of the best duels ever witnessed in Zimbabwe.Thank God for SuperSport, Zimbabwe s own version of the derby was captured for posterity and beamed live to the world from Barbourfields Stadium and what a beautiful sight it was. As early as Sunday morning, the City of Kings and Queens was painted in various shades of blue, black and white as the teams faithful followers exchanged banter and engaged in pre-match rituals.Impromptu road shows were the order of the day with motorists adding to the carnival atmosphere by dutifully hooting whenever they came across football mad fanatics on the streets. For once, Bulawayo truly came alive and the aftermath of the derby will reveal that a lot of businesses were yesterday smiling all the way to the bank.The fact that the match itself was incident-free with no notable incidents of violence reported shows that Zimbabweans have matured and realise the futility of engaging in senseless acts of thuggery which cost their clubs dearly. We want to thank both sets of fans for their exemplary behaviour and shaming prophets of doom and those who sought to hijack their big day by seeking their indulgence in taking part in political sideshows.Pastor Evan Mawarire the self-exiled cleric of the #ThisFlag movement had appealed to football supporters to stand up and sing the old national anthem, Nkosi Sikelel iAfrica, in the 36th minute. Mawarire, who is now based in the United States of America, had sent messages via social media urging fans to stage a protest but was totally ignored.Instead, fans were more interested in the performance of their teams which were seeking victory for different reasons. In the end, Highlanders deservedly completed a double over their bitter foes, torching wild celebrations in Bulawayo. The game itself was played in fiercely competitive spirit typical of a derby and was a worthy advertisement for the game of football in the country.There were crunch tackles, shirt pulling, deft touches, show boating and all round moments of individual brilliance that held the near capacity crowd spellbound. At times, the football was so mesmerising it was difficult to fathom that these two giants of Zimbabwean football are not at the top of their game. We applaud the players for putting up a top drawer performance and salute the fans for cheering them throughout the entire 90 minutes.The behaviour of supporters of both Dynamos and Highlanders deserves special praise because of the violence which has marred yesteryear duels between the two teams. There was no missile throwing and the message from team officials seems to have gotten through to the supporters that by disrupting play and earning their clubs hefty fines, they are contributing to their demise.We also commend the police for the manner in which they controlled the crowd and maintained a peaceful atmosphere. There was a heavy police presence both inside and on the periphery of the stadium and this must have deterred unruly elements from engaging in wanton acts of violence.Zifa president Philip Chiyangwa was also part of the bumper crowd having flown in specifically for the big match and we applaud him for taking time to come down to Bulawayo. We also agree with him that football should never be used to advance political agendas and join him in condemning Mawarire s nonsensical call for a 36th minute singing of the old national anthem.All things considered, the latest instalment of the biggest match on the Zimbabwean football calendar lived up to its billing and both teams must be commended for showcasing brilliant soccer. Often, it is during such matches that real stars are born and on Sunday, young Highlanders defender Peter Muduhwa showed his class by displaying a man of the match performance which belied his age and experience. The youngster never put a foot wrong and capped his fine afternoon by providing an assist for his team s winning goal. His stock keeps rising and the sky is the limit.