National Youth Service graduates during a pass out parade in this file photoWhinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter NATIONAL Youth Service (NYS) graduates are geared to respond to the activities of opposition protestors who have been causing commotion in the major cities of the country. Shadowy groups and agents of illegal regime change seeking to cause anarchy and destabilisation in the country have been calling on Zimbabweans to participate in the illegal so called shutdowns and demonstrations.Zanu-PF National Youth Service Secretary General, Cde Kudakwashe Ndavara said the shadowy groups have been sending unsolicited text messages, e-mails and posting subversive messages on social networking sites such as Facebook and WhatsApp in the hope of getting Zimbabwean citizens to engage in demonstrations. We have geared up and are fully prepared to deal with those protestors who are up to destroying our country. We voted for President Mugabe in 2013 and no outsider has power to remove him at any time before we hold our next election in 2018. We won t watch while these American driven groups vandalise our country. We are fully aware that some neighbouring countries are busy sponsoring and training our youths to come and fight our President. However, we have a database of the culprits being trained, their names and the numbers of those who have been trained so far, said Cde Ndavara.Cde Ndavara said they have identified most of those recruited people as deserters from the police force and army, who he said are training in some neighbouring countries. Youths are being sponsored by opposition parties to engage in the nonsensical activities which have recently been going on. It is foolish of a Zimbabwean to be greedy so as to be paid by a foreigner to vandalise and destroy their own home (s). Is a payment of $5 worth it? Furthermore, the unfortunate ones were sentenced and will be in prison for more than six months. I say to youths let s be realistic and think outside the box. The violence and the shutdowns are just a drawback to us, he said.Matabeleland North National Youth Service Commander, Matthew Mleya, who is also Hwange Rural District Council chairperson, said the decision by the youths to stand up and fight for their country was reached last week. We have deployed youths all over the country and have readied them to deal with any suspicious persons with intentions to vandalise properties during demonstrations. Last Friday, dressed in our complete uniforms, we strolled around Harare CBD, observing what was taking place, as well as to remind the protesters that we still exist and won t watch our country being reduced to ashes by little-minded fellows, he said.Two weeks ago, MDC-T linked groups engaged in violent demonstrations that resulted in destruction of property in Harare. Two vehicles belonging to the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation and the police were burnt during the protests. The protesters also destroyed shops and looted goods worth thousands of dollars.