Minister Walter MzembiAuxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Government has slammed the British and United States embassies for issuing travel warnings on Zimbabwe following recent protests. Tourism and Hospitality Minister Dr Walter Mzembi said the issuance of the travel warnings will affect the tourism industry which remains the only performing pillar of the economy. Following protests on the streets of Harare, and campaigns by the #this Flag movement, the United States of America issued travel warnings on Zimbabwe simultaneously invoked together with the UK. Basically they advise against travel to Zimbabwe, hurting in the process the only performing pillar in the Zimbabwe economy which receipted in excess of $600 million half year up to June, and expected to do more than this figure in the second half, wrote Dr Mzembi on his Facebook page on Thursday. Apart from wanting to foreclose the Zimbabwe economy as part of wanting to shut down Zimbabwe which has been the clarion call of the protest movement, I can t help but conclude that the two countries are sucking themselves into internal disputes and exacerbating the situation by this inordinate response which sinks additional millions of innocent Zimbabwean civilians into abject poverty. Dr Mzembi said Article 6 of the Global Code of Ethics restrains countries from unilateral action on countries without engaging them.He said Zimbabwe has a 33-year tourism safety and security record and there are no explosions on its streets or bombings to warrant the US and UK action. I am in the USA watching Fox News Agency, and the America you will never see and police brutality on protesters which will make the ZRP behaviour of the last three months and by the way I don t subscribe to it, look like they are our peaceful municipal police force, Dr Mzembi said. The lesson is when citizens declare war on police, it invites brutality until the politicians come in to talk people off the streets and into dialogue. The Minister said Zimbabwe like many African countries was a victim of bullying from the West.He said as an African candidate for the United Nations World Tourism Organisation Secretary General post, he was hoping to redress the anomaly. I haven t heard a single American inviting sanctions on their country in the wake of these scuffles. They understand National Interest, period! said Dr Mzembi adding that all patriotic citizens must implore the USA and UK to remove the illegal travel warnings.On September 6, the British Embassy, in a travel warning to its nationals, said: There have been demonstrations in towns and cities in recent months, some of which have been violent. You should avoid areas where demonstrations may be held, or where there are large gatherings of people. If a demonstration or disturbance is taking place, leave quickly and don t attempt to watch or photograph it. Monitor this travel advice and local media (including radio and social media) for updates. @AuxiliaK