Tawanda MupariwaRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter RIGHT arm fast-medium seam bowler Tawanda Mupariwa has been left out of the provisional Matabeleland Tuskers Cricket Franchise for the 2016-17 season, amid revelations that he is earmarked for a move to Australia. Sources within the Bulawayo based franchise said selectors agreed to leave Mupariwa out of the squad pending his intended move.Mupariwa who has fallen down the order in the national team is the major absentee in Tuskers provisional 20-member squad which was submitted by the selectors at the weekend and is waiting for the board s approval. The selectors have submitted the squad to the office and Tawanda s has been left out of the list of 20 players who will get contracts. He told the selectors that he wants to go to Australia and if that fails, then he will play for Tuskers, said a source.The squad has among other experienced players top order batsman Sean Williams who has rejoined Tuskers from Midwest Rhinos where he spent a season, spin-bowler John Nyumbu, national team wicketkeeper Richmond Mutumbami, Luke Jongwe and Christopher Mpofu.Left-handed batsman Craig Ervine s name has also been included in the provisional squad together with top-order batsman Brian Chari.The quartet of Tafara Mupariwa, Steve Chimamhiwa, Keith Dabengwa and Mbekezeli Mabuza who played winter cricket overseas have also been included in the squad.Wayne James, Tuskers coach, said Williams return would strengthen their batting line-up. We ve started our pre-season and as it is we re working on fitness because we have a big pool of players which we should trim to about 15 to 20 in the coming weeks. We re also waiting for a couple of guys that are still overseas to join us. Our former captain Williams has bounced back and will be playing for us this season. This will certainly be a boost to our batting unit, James was quoted as saying recently.The Tuskers administrator said the squad will only be made public after the board s approval.He expressed confidence of reclaiming glory.Tuskers came second to Mashonaland Eagles in the Logan Cup. Eagles also won the 2015/16 season s Pro50 title. The guys have assembled a strong squad and looking at it we have the potential to reclaim the Logan Cup and probably try and win the Pro-50 which we haven t won since establishment of franchise cricket in 2009.You can call say in two weeks time for the final squad because we have to get the board s seal of approval, said Tuskers Cricket Franchise chief executive officer Stanley Staddon.@ZililoR.