Killian SibandaTanaka Mrewa, Court Reporter THE Member of Parliament for Nkulumane constituency, Killian Sibanda, has been ordered to pay $250 per month for the upkeep of his daughter after the mother of one of his children found out that he earns more than $2 000 per month. Achiwangani Maseko, the child s mother, through her lawyer Mrs Doreen Phulu of Vundhla-Phulu and Partners, dragged Sibanda to court seeking an upward variation of maintenance from $90 to $556.Bulawayo Magistrate Mr Manasa Musiiwa granted the upward variation.In passing his ruling, Mr Musiiwa said the new discoveries justified the increase. The respondent neglected to disclose all his finances. Applicant went a step ahead to inquire on his income. It is inevitable under the circumstances to accept a variation upwards. However, $550 is not justifiable. Respondent is ordered to pay $250 per month. He will pay fees directly to the school account, cater for stationery and medical expenses, he said.Mrs Phulu told the court that Sibanda had not been honest with the court about his income. Your Worship when the order for $90 was granted, the court had only considered his Foundation College payslip that reflected $183. Two other sources of income show that he earns $217 from a pension fund and $1 940 from the Parliament of Zimbabwe. This brings his income to $2 157 every month, she said.Mrs Phulu said the new discoveries warranted an upward variation. Considering that the child has a medical condition, there is a need for medical aid. The child is also growing up and needs to start attending cr che. The recommended cr che needs $440 whereas the medical aid will cost $110 per month. A special diet for the child will cost about $100 per month so the money being asked for is quite reasonable, she said. As a Member of Parliament your Worship, he engages in campaigns that help less privileged and handicapped children yet his own child would be suffering the same plight. Besides, with such an income, offering $90 as upkeep is just an insult to his child. Mrs Phulu said to show that the money is not being sought for personal gain, Sibanda can deposit the money straight into the creche s bank account and the medical aid money straight to the relevant account. Surely your Worship with such a status in the community, it wouldn t be fair to have a child without medical aid especially considering that the baby has a health condition that needs attention time and again, said Mrs Phulu.Sibanda appeared in court in April and offered to pay $40 for his child s upkeep.His second appearance saw him adding $50 bringing the maintenance fee to $90. @tannytkay