David MandigoraFrom Ray Bande in Mutare Mutare City 2-0 Triangle VETERAN coach David Yogi Mandigora could be living on borrowed times at Triangle after the former Dynamos mentor agonisingly watched his team succumb to a fourth defeat in a row, this time at the hands of relegation candidates Mutare City Rovers at Sakubva yesterday. Midfielders Russel Madamombe and the seasoned Wonder Sithole struck either side of the break to ensure the hosts continued with their huge fight against relegation.But for former Dynamos coach Mandigora, it has been a forgettable patch.Mandigora was openly ridiculed by Triangle fans after the sugarcane growers suffered yet another morale sapping defeat against Caps United on home turf in their recent league encounter at Gibbo in Chiredzi last weekend.The soft-spoken Mandigora even admitted in a post match interview that he is indeed under immense pressure to turn the tables for the Tongaat Hulett bankrolled outfit. We are not playing well. When you lose four matches in a row, for a big club like Triangle, it is not good at all. At this level of the game if you do not score you can be punished for that and indeed we were punished for that in this match. I am disappointed for our fans. They would not really enjoy such results. Yes, I am under pressure because losing four matches in a row is not good for any team, said Mandigora.Yesterday s victory for City Rovers could not have come at a better time as the vastly improved Mutare municipality owned outfit got back to third from bottom position on the log table after fellow relegation candidates Tsholotsho had assumed that position a day before, thanks to their slender 1-0 triumph over Border Strikers on Saturday.Mutare City Rovers could have surged ahead 13 minutes into the match when Chasten Chandongonda pounced on a loose ball following a goalmouth melee but the former Triangle player failed to punish his former paymasters as he put his effort wide of target.However, the hosts got it right in the 27th minute after Madamombe was fouled in the box by Triangle s Ronald Dzvanyai and Harare based referee Josiah Masimira made no mistake as he pointed to the spot.Up stepped former Harare City striker Agrippa Murimba who hit the roof of the net, much to the ululation of the paltry crowd of home team fans. Referee Masimira, who rightfully handled the match with aplomb, impartiality and authority, once again pointed to the spot when Kudakwashe Gurure clumsily brought down a goal-bound Malvern Gaki, three minutes after the break.However, Mutare City goalminder Philip Nhete made light work of ex-top flight league Golden Boot award recipient Nelson Maziwisa s weak effort as the goalkeeper parried the ball to safety from the resultant penalty.Gusha Bhora, as City Rovers are fondly referred to by their fans in Mutare, extended their lead in the 63rd minute when ageless second half substitute Wonder Sithole s volley from a few yards outside the box left Triangle goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu a well beaten man.Taku Shariwa, the Mutare City coach, praised his players for playing according to instruction. Considering that we had gone down after Tsholotsho won yesterday s league encounter, it meant that we really needed to win today. We played well in all departments and I am happy that the boys acquitted themselves well in this match. We will soldier on with our quest to evade relegation. That is our priority as a club. Yes, we are going to face Highlanders in the Chibuku Cup first round matches next weekend but our priority remains Premiership survival, said Shariwa.Teams Mutare City Rovers: P Nhete, B Mkwena, V Madamombe, M Sako, M Tapatapa, C Chandongonda, C Muzavazi, B Majamanda, K Gurure (W Sithole 57th minute), R Madamombe (S Sibanda 70th minute), A Murimba; Triangle: R Mudimu, L Nhamo, T Mapungwana, D Dzvinyai, K Chigwida, N Mazivisa (C Denias 60th minute), M Chiwara, R Mhlanga, R Kawondera (H Mavundi 81st minute), M Gaki, G Zhokinyi: