Ruvheneko ParirenyatwaBruce Ndlovu A few months after Ruvheneko Parirenyatwa left ZiFM Stereo s The Platform, she has been nominated in the Best Female Urban Talk Show Presenter category at the Zimbabwe Radio Awards (Zira). She has taken to social media to talk about what the nomination meant to her, posting on Facebook: Thank you to the Zimbabwe Radio Awards for the nomination! I ve been through a lot more than meets the eye (or ear) on radio and when things like this come along it renews an energy thought to be spent and it puts all the sweat and tears to purpose. I have been judged daily for how I executed this interview, or treated that guest and I deserve it because yes, there re days I know I messed up or could have done things better or different. I ve learnt so much from my mistakes that I am ready to make a few more. The departure from one of the country s most popular radio stations seemed to have taken its toll on one of the voices that personified it, although she highlighted the fact that more was still to come from her. I love what I do/did and I thank you ALL for the guidance, love and constructive criticism. I m here and I m not stopping. Off radio for now, but not gone. Bloody perhaps, but unbowed. So, here s the nomination but the rest is up to us! part of her post read.The nomination comes shortly after Ruvhi showcased her versatility by quickly switching from The Platform on radio to ZBC s My Future.Ruvheneko is not the only ZiFM product raising a fist of triumph after their nomination, with Tendai Sokostina Gware highlighting her tough journey to the Zira nomination list. I m beyond humbled by this nomination. Firstly because of the amazing personalities I am up against. Second, I am humbled that in less than a year of being on air and presenting just once a week on air, I am nominated for most popular urban female presenter, what?!!! Who ever thought? Definitely not me, she posted on her own page.Other notable names to make the nomination list include ZiFm s MisRed, Kimble Rodgers and Star FM s Tilda Moyo, Mox, Phathisani Sibanda and KVG while Zimbabwean comedy s Jack of All Trades Carl Joshua Ncube also notched another feather in his cap after being nominated in the Presenter On Air category.