Shocked residents in Salford, Greater Manchester were knocked sick after breathing in the fumes as the pungent smell filled the air. Children were reportedly vomiting in the street after a cannabis farm went up in flames and filled a quiet cul-de-sac with horrid drug-fuelled smoke.Neighbours watched on in horror as the blaze tore through a home in Weaste, Salford and the pungent smell filled the air last night.They said they had had no idea cannabis was being grown there and were knocked sick after breathing in the fumes, reports Manchester Evening News.One neighbour said a young child was sick everywhere as the thick smoke billowed from the roof of the property.Firefighters tackled the flames at around 7.15pm but the roof of the semi-detached home was left badly damaged and the adjoining property was left badly charred. No-one was inside the property at the time, but a dog was rescued by fire crews.Police attended the scene and arrested a 43-year-old man after the cannabis farm was discovered. He has been bailed pending further enquiries.Neighbour Gaynor Turner (53) said the smell was horrendous and said residents were shocked to discover cannabis was being grown at the house.She added: I was sat in my house with my granddaughter when I saw the flames. The dog was hanging out of a window trying to escape. The smell was horrendous it was so strong. Once the flames were really high and the smoke was coming from the roof, you could really smell it. It was disgusting. One of my neighbours came into my house with her five-year-old, who was sick everywhere because of the fumes. I ve lived here for 17 years. I can t believe there was a cannabis farm there. Another neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: It was very strong, you could feel it on your lungs. Someone was joking that we should have been grateful because it was a free high . A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police confirmed a cannabis farm was discovered at the home following reports of a fire and that a 43-year-old man was arrested and bailed pending further inquiries. Reuters.