Ndumiso GumedeMehluli Sibanda Senior Sports Reporter IN a move aimed at saving Highlanders a lot of money in training fees, the borehole at the Bulawayo giants clubhouse has been resuscitated.A visit to Highlanders Sports Club last Thursday showed that the borehole was now functional. The club s chief executive officer Ndumiso Gumede had earlier disclosed that the borehole was now working after they had purchased a submersible pump. Some of the funds came from the rentals Highlanders are getting for the safe overnight keeping of bales of clothing from the flea market next to the clubhouse.It is understood the informal traders pay $30 per month for leaving their wares overnight for safekeeping. We secured the necessary funds to purchase the submersible pump and it has been fitted. We are beginning to water the place. The borehole has always been there, but the pump was stolen a long time ago. Green Gardens lent us a pump, which they took away when their borehole broke down, said Gumede. We got some of the money from rentals for bales. The rain is coming down anytime, but we are not waiting for the rain, we are starting; we have also received a quotation for redoing the three fields, but money is the problem. The person is already clearing the grass that is there with a view to planting lawn and watering it, he said.Gumede also revealed that they had numerous plans for the clubhouse to raise funds for Highlanders, but lack of seed capital to get those projects rolling was scuttling those initiatives.One of the plans is for a perimeter wall to be erected around the clubhouse so that it can be hired out for shows and concerts.Gumede said they were given a quotation of $156 000 for the 900m brick wall around the property and its erection was dependent on the availability of resources.He believes that the best way of raising the wall is to get individuals that are prepared to sponsor the construction of a section of the wall where they will be allowed to advertise.Resuscitating the borehole has allowed the carwash at the clubhouse to reopen. Highlanders also get money from renting out the outside kitchen at the clubhouse.Gumede believes it will take time for the first team to start using the clubhouse grounds, while their Division One side, women s team as well as the boys age group teams are already holding their training sessions there. According to information supplied by our sources, Highlanders pay $37 to train at the Bulawayo City Council grounds for two hours, which translates to $185 for five days.Meanwhile, only 12 Highlanders life members had by last Friday made their $20 contributions for August meant to try and keep the 90-year-old institution afloat. According to communication sent to members, those that have made the payments so far are Kenneth Mhlophe, Noel Mkandla, Sicelo Dube, Thomas Ngwenya, Solwayo Ngwenya, Gumede, Modern Ngwenya, Menziwa Nxumalo, Morgen Dube, Knowledge Ncube, Matthew Sibindi and Davies Sibanda.Those who have pledged their allegiance to the country s oldest football club for life are set to meet on September 25 at the clubhouse where they are expected to get feedback on the special purpose vehicle which they tasked the board to explore in order to save the club from its dire financial situation. @Mdawini_29