Showbiz Reporter YAFM, Zvishavane s first radio station, is celebrating its first anniversary this month and has declared September as the Great Dyke month.The station, which turns one on September 25, has lined up a wide range of activities as part of their celebrations. Ever since its inception, the commercial radio station that spans for about 550km from Zvishavane stretching up to Chegutu and Shurugwi, has built a strong listenership, primarily targeting mining communities within the Great Dyke.YaFM events executive, Rejoice Chishamba, said they had partnered business associations and banks for their celebrations. The Great Dyke month will see a number of events aimed at bringing together business in the Great Dyke being held. The events will be held to explore ways of fully unlocking the potential of the mineral rich region of Zimbabwe, said Chishamba. We re proud to be celebrating our first anniversary as we remain the only voice of the mining community, said Chishamba. Next week Friday, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, John Mangudya, is expected to meet large and small scale miners at Pote Hill Hotel to share ideas on growing the business potential of the multibillion dollar region that houses Mimosa, Zimplats, Unki, Zimasco and Murowa Diamonds. The forum will bring together stakeholders from the extractive industry (large, small scale and artisanal miners), retail, manufacturing, Small and Medium Enterprises, communities, banking sector, Chamber of Mines, Zimbabwe Miners Federation and Government Departments. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe Governor will be the guest of honour at the Business Investment Forum, said Chishamba. YaFm chairman, Munyaradzi Hwengwere said: The irony is that we speak a lot about the Great Dyke yet know precious little about this important region. YaFm presents a significant opportunity to the country not only to celebrate our God given wealth, but importantly explore and share experiences on how the people of Zimbabwe can fully unlock the potential of the region. As we celebrate the Great Dyke month, we ve put together a package that ensures that businesses across the whole spectrum increase their visibility, sales and stakeholder appreciation. We need to see businesses beyond brick and mortar but remember that within the Great Dyke, we ve great sports people, musicians and artistes. A career guidance day and tour of Zimplats and Wedza complex home to Mimosa mining company have also been arranged. The Great Dyke Career Guidance day on September 28 will be graced by Maud Chifamba, the 18-year-old accounting graduate from the University of Zimbabwe who holds the distinction of being among the five youngest University students in Africa. The day is designed to provide both tertiary and high school students with practical tools for assessing their opportunities across the Great Dyke, said Hwengwere.There will also be business exhibitions in September at YaFm premises. The cherry will be the Great Dyke Fun Day on September 30. A lot of musicians have been lined up to perform on this day. On the same day, the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe auditions will be facilitated in that town by YaFM. Miss Tourism auditions will take place at Shabanie Mine Club and will be supported by the Ministry of Tourism and Hospitality as well as Zimbabwe Tourism Authority. We believe this is an opportunity of a lifetime for the extractive industry to meet various stakeholders along the Dyke for the purposes of visibility and networking. 