Baby Manqoba and motherBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AS part of efforts to raise $43 000 for baby Manqoba s liver transplant in India, Bulawayo artistes have come together to pen a song to raise awareness. Nine-month-old Baby Manqoba, the daughter of Zimpapers journalists Lawson Mabhena and Shamiso Yikoniko, was diagnosed with biliary atresia &#8211; a liver condition &#8211; when she was five months old. Then, surgeons could not perform any corrective surgery because the liver was showing signs of significant damage, leaving them to suggest that she gets a liver transplant.Manqoba s liver can fail to function anytime, something which has led musicians to chip in fast.Khuliyo, one of the artiste s working on the song, said they would be in studio during the weekend. He said they had come together because of their relationship with Lawson &#8211; a former Sunday News News Editor. Other than Khuliyo, the song features artistes Iyasa, Lady T, Stone, Sgeca, Donna N, Nkwali and Umdumo Wesiwe. Ingwe Studios will facilitate the recording. Lawson Mabhena was one of the first entertainment journalists to push local arts. We felt we needed to be involved in this cause as Bulawayo artistes to help his beautiful daughter get a liver transplant. We re indebted to him as he had a hand in the growth of most of our careers, said Khuliyo.Once recorded, the song will be released immediately on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter as artistes want it to go viral, even beyond the country s borders. A hash tag #SaveManqoba has since been created on social media and is trending as people are being encouraged to donate. Ideally, we want people to send a dollar to Shamiso s Lawson s wife s EcoCash account each time they share the song. This is an opportunity for us to show ubuntu. The artiste, who is also part of the Intwasa Arts Festival koBulawayo organisers, said they had donated 50 Bayethe Bulawayo Concert VIP tickets to the #SaveManqoba cause. Once purchased, about $500 will be deposited into Mabhena s account. The tickets to the Bayethe concert can be purchased at The Chronicle building. All proceeds from the tickets will be directed to the Save Manqoba fund, said Khuliyo.A sponsored walk is also on the cards and will be held next week Saturday.Comedian, Oliver Keith, popularly known as NaJesca, has also come on board with a video clip in which he pleads with his followers to donate. No amount is too small to donate, no amount is too big. We need to support baby Manqoba because at this stage, it s very fatal, the doctors say her liver can stop working at any time, pleads Keith while asking people to spread the video.For those who want to assist save Manqoba, they can get in touch with Shamiso on +263772935224 or deposit any amount to the banking details below:Name: Shamiso YikonikoBank: FBC BankBranch: FBC CentreAccount Number: 3070070770125- @bonganinkunzi