Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe has dismissed speculation that he could succeed Arsene Wenger at Arsenal as meaningless and insists he is fully committed to the Cherries. Wenger is in the final year of his contract at Arsenal and has yet to make a decision about his future, raising speculation about who could manage the Gunners next season.The Sun reported on Wednesday that Howe is being seriously considered by the Arsenal hierarchy as a possible replacement if Wenger is to step down.However, responding to the report on Thursday, Howe told a news conference: Speculation is meaningless. I turn a blind eye to it because I do believe it doesn t have anything meaningful to help me get results for this club. I want to win games here and as quickly as possible because we want to climb the league. My only aim is success for Bournemouth. Howe has been credited with playing a similar style of football to Arsenal, and his links to the Emirates Stadium strengthened after he convinced Jack Wilshere to join Bournemouth on loan after falling out of Wenger s first-choice lineup.Howe said Wilshere, who could make his debut against West Bromwich Albion today, has already settled in well at the club.And the Cherries boss insisted that he remains fully focused on the present and not on what might happen in the future. This season is so new, we re three games in and haven t won a game yet, he said. My only focus can be on trying to win the next game. My only focus can be Bournemouth every minute of every day because if it s not then the team will suffer. I reiterate my commitment to Bournemouth. I am very happy here. I believe I m a very loyal person to the people I work for. It s very difficult in this line of work to predict the future and I think if you do that, you come unstuck. Who knows what s going to happen in six months, a year, two years, five years or 10 years? There is no way of predicting it. In football management you live week to week. You re either very good or very bad in everyone s eyes. My aim is always to prepare for the long-term for the benefit of the football club but I take short-term steps and measures to make sure the team is best prepared for the Saturday. ESPNFC.