Bongani Ndlovu Showbiz Correspondent A partial solar eclipse that occurred countrywide yesterday sent social media abuzz with people tweeting and sharing images on the heavenly phenomenon. The annular eclipse that hit Southern Africa was visible in Zimbabwe in the morning into the afternoon as the moon passed in front of the sun, creating a brilliant ring of fire that, according to the Meteorological Services Department, lasted for about three hours.Some greeted it with glee saying this was good luck as it signalled that there would be plenty of rain this year. However, others said it was a sign that there would be drought with the more dramatic ones saying the sun was rotting.Others quipped that local prophets failed to foretell a golden opportunity to make money.Comedians such as The Comic Pastor took advantage of the rare event to give out a live blow by blow broadcast of the eclipse with hilarious videos shared on his Facebook page. He called his broadcasts Dead BC, an apparent jibe at national broadcaster ZBC.According to the Comic Pastor, the eclipse was brought to Zimbabwe s doorsteps by the Ministry of Tourism and Hospitality Industry. Vanhu varikufara nechiitiko ichi chataunzirwa neMinistry of Tourism kuti tione nesu, solar eclipse (People are overjoyed with this phenomenon that was brought to you by the Ministry of Tourism so that they can also get a chance to view an eclipse), posted the Comic Pastor. Not to be outdone was comedian Q Siziba who also posted a video online where he was representing someone who was fired from work. Hanzi iwe wakaona eclipse ukatora zvinhu zvako ukati kwadoka. Hauzivi eclipse here? (They are saying you mistook the slight darkness for nightfall and you packed your things and left the office. You didn t know that it was an eclipse?), said Q.While the eclipse took Zimbabweans by surprise, other countries such as Madagascar seemed to have been well prepared as they declared yesterday a national holiday. A statement issued by their government council urged Malagasy people to wear special glasses to observe the phenomenon.- Twitter @bonganinkunzi&nbsp;