IyasaBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE Police Commissioner-General s annual funfair that was set to be held in July will now be held on Saturday in Bulawayo with a star-studded line-up expected to entertain thousands of people at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) show grounds. The 18th edition of the popular fair will have the likes of Sandra Ndebele, Iyasa, Jeys Marabini, Charles and Olivia Charamba and Clement Magwaza as part of the entertainment. They will be complemented by the police band. Adults will pay $2 to enter the venue and $1 for children with a specially designed entertainment programme for the latter, which includes rides in the traffic police cars and bikes; jumping castles among a host of other games and rides.Police displays, a mainstay at agricultural shows and other national events around the country, will be staged as well. A raffle to win televisions, a car and stoves will be conducted on the day.National police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Paul Nyathi said the postponement was due to logistical challenges at that time.He said everything was now in place for the funfair to happen on Saturday. The show will become an annual event and we urge people to come in their numbers to enjoy the day with members of police. There are many fun games, said Chief Supt Nyathi. For several years people have been complaining and pleading with the Commissioner General (Augustine Chihuri) to hold the funfair in Bulawayo.We saw it fit as the police service for the people that we should heed that call. On the day the police will mix and mingle with the public as they enjoy the occasion together. He said the proceeds from the funfair will be channelled towards the Commissioner General s charity activities around the country. All the proceeds will go towards the charity, the Commissioner General of Police Welfare Fund, where we are sponsoring over 600 children all over the country. We want each and every person to play a part in this charitable cause, said Chief Supt Nyathi. Those who want to sell wares during the day will be afforded the chance as stalls will be available at $50 for individuals and $200 for companies.The Harare event will be held on October 1 at Morris Depot. Meanwhile, the police have announced a route permit waiver for commuter omnibus operators in the city to facilitate smooth transportation of residents and school children to attend the event. All holders of valid commuter omnibus route authorities that operate within Bulawayo are advised that the route restrictions for their road service permits will be waived only on September 10. This will only be for the purpose of ferrying passengers attending the Zimbabwe Republic Police Commissioner General s funfair at the ZITF Show grounds in Bulawayo, said Chief Supt Nyathi.