Wynne Zanamwe, Midlands Reporter A MAN (38) who was on the police most wanted list for crimes committed in Chiwundura in the Midlands province has been arrested, eight years after allegedly raping and stealing $3 billion from a 41 year old woman. Andrew Ngwenya of Chibhareta Village under Chief Gambiza appeared before Gweru Magistrate Mr Morgan Nemadire facing robbery and rape charges.He pleaded not guilty and was remanded in custody to October 4 for sentencing.Ngwenya who moved from Chiwundura after committing the crimes in 2008 was arrested in January after he was found in possession of 30kgs of meat that he failed to account for.The investigating officer told the court that Ngwenya was a habitual criminal and some of the crimes that he allegedly committed are still under investigation. The accused [was] on our most wanted list in Chiwundura, before he left the area and went to live in Kwekwe. He used to wait for female school teachers from Boulder Primary School on Fridays and Sundays so that he would rape them, said the investigating officer.In his defence Ngwenya said: Your Worship if I had been wanted by the police why did the officers who were on a roadblock near where it is being said the crime happened not arrest me? The complainant did not know me. She must have been told by the police that I was Andrew Ngwenya because I have been labelled as a thug in the area. Prosecuting, Mr Kelvin Guvheya said on June 16 in 2008, the 41 year-old woman got out of a truck and started walking along Kabanga road going towards Boulder Primary School in Chiwundura. The accused stopped her and told her that he wanted to search her bag since he was looking for his pills and money which he had lost along the way. Ngwenya held the complainant s hand and started to drag her into the bush and when the complainant resisted, the accused slapped her on the face three times. The accused took complainant s three billion Zimbabwe dollars cash from her handbag, said Mr Guvheya.The court heard that Ngwenya pushed the complainant to the ground and removed her skirt and panties before he raped her once.The accused allegedly threatened the complainant with death if she tried to run away and ordered her to wait until it was sunset before she could leave. The complainant managed to run away and she arrived at Bruce Hills homestead where she reported the matter. She was accompanied to the police to report the matter and she was referred to Gweru Hospital for medical examination, said Mr Guvheya.@wynnezane.