Sunday ChidzambwaEddie Chikamhi, Harare Burea THE terrain may not have been easy for legendary coach Sunday Chidzambwa when he returned to the domestic game following a 16-year absence but there is a lot to smile about for the former Warriors gaffer after he was named the Castle Lager Premiership Coach of the Month for August. Chidzambwa, who joined ZPC Kariba last season, was yesterday ecstatic to learn he had scooped the accolade following a consistent run of good results which yielded 10 points from five games.He could have faced stiff challenge from Harare City s Moses Chunga who picked nine points during the same period.Caps United s Lloyd Chitembwe was also close with eight points. Hwange forward Gift Mbweti, a joint winner in July, returned to the podium for the successive month after he was named the best player.Chidzambwa, who is the most successful coach in Zimbabwe, was happy with the award. First of all, I would like to thank those who voted for recognising our performances as a team. I am also grateful to the technical team whom I work with, the management, the team executive, the players and the supporters who have followed us everywhere we played. Generally, I am thrilled and honoured that my efforts as a coach are also being recognised. But I think we worked hard as a team for those results considering that we were coming from a rough patch stretching about eight games in the previous games. So I would like to congratulate my boys, they responded positively and managed to stitch together three wins in succession. It was not an easy thing for them, said Chidzambwa.However, ZPC Kariba are sitting fourth on the log standings with 35 points.Chidzambwa s side took advantage of the faltering by the leading pack in the last month to keep within a shouting distance in the race.They had started the season brightly but they experienced a dip in form along the way. ZPC Kariba are now nine points off the pace behind leaders FC Platinum, Caps United and Highlanders with eight games remaining in the season. As I said, we had a rough patch and I think that s where we lost it. It was unfortunate, had we done well in those eight or so games we could be competing with the top teams right now. But it s football. Next time we all now know that you don t need to slacken. Just try and pick a point or so every time, said Chidzambwa.ZPC Kariba are unbeaten in their last five games and they held leaders FC Platinum to a goalless draw in their previous assignment.They travel to Hwange for their next match. Hwange are not an easy team to play especially at their backyard. But we will go there to fight for points. We just hope for a positive result. Hwange may have struggled in the bottom half of the table but their striker Mbweti, who is also the current Premiership s Top Goal Scorer, has been in fine form.This will be his second individual accolade after he was named together with and Ngezi Platinum s James Nguluve and Rodwell Chinyengetere of FC Platinum for the July Player of the Month.Mbweti has eight goals to his name but he will not be able to add to his tally tomorrow when the coal miners travel to Chicken Inn because of suspension.