Late Vice President Dr Simon MuzendaWalter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent THE Government has been urged to erect a statue of the late Vice President Dr Simon Muzenda in Masvingo City s central business district in recognition of his sterling work both during and after the liberation war. Dr Muzenda died on September 20 in 2003 aged 80.Speaking during the $12 000 Simon Muzenda Memorial golf championships prize giving ceremony at Masvingo Sports Club on Saturday night, Masvingo Golf Association executive member Mr Pascal Mudzikisi said considering the sterling work that the late humorous and down to earth nationalist did in Masvingo and throughout the country, the late VP deserves to be honoured in a special way.He said a statue should be erected and a street in Masvingo also named after him in recognition of his works. We are appealing to the Government to consider our request as people of Masvingo to erect a statue in the CDB and name a street after him. The late Dr Muzenda is a luminary par excellence and we want the young generation to be reminded of his sterling work through a statue near OK along Josiah Tongogara, said Mr Mudzikisi.He expressed optimism that the Government will consider their request.Mr Mudzikisi said like other nationalists both living and fallen, the late VP Muzenda deserves befitting recognition in Masvingo province. He said he even deserves the civic honour of the city posthumously.The late VP s wife, Cde Maud Muzenda said it would be an honour to have a statue of the late hero in Masvingo. During the colonial era, I suffered a lot with my children while my husband was incarcerated over political issues. Baba Muzenda was a selfless leader indeed as he helped many children go to school until they attained diplomas and degrees. As a family we will appreciate if a statue is erected in his honour, said Cde Muzenda.Her son, Vitalis Vengesai Muzenda, also an Air Zimbabwe pilot, said his father managed to educate nearly 500 children throughout Masvingo up to college and university level.He said he would continue his father s works under the Simon Muzenda Foundation. Our father managed to provide school fees to 487 children from Masvingo province. Most of these children are now working and some have attained doctorates. As a family we offer to continue with our father s philanthropic work under the Simon Muzenda Foundation. We also hope the business world will also chip in, he said.@walterbmswazie2