Prince DubeSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports ReporterIN a bid to avoid a possible loss on both fronts, relegation-haunted Border Strikers have increased gates charges for their clash against Highlanders at Dulivhadzimu Stadium tomorrow. The Castle Lager Premier Soccer League management gave them the green light to increase charges.Vavheneki, as the border town based team is known, have hiked their charges to $5 for the rest of the ground and $10 for VIP. The increase will surely guarantee them financial victory as success is not certain on the field of play against Amahlolanyama, who rose from the second half slumber with a 2-0 win against How Mine last weekend.Established in 1982, Border Strikers Dulivhadzimu Stadium has a carrying capacity of between 5 000 and 6 000 spectators.Castle Lager Premier Soccer League chief executive officer Kennedy Ndebele said: We okayed their decision to increase the charges. They did the same when Dynamos went there. Dulivhadzimu is certainly set to be filled to the rafters with mostly Bosso supporters although Border Strikers have a fair following at home.Bosso posted a 2-0 win in the first leg at Barbourfields Stadium through a Bruce Kangwa braze in a match which is mostly remembered for the famous quote by former Border Strikers coach Saul Chaminuka who said referees mustn t come for games with the results in their pockets just to hand them over.New Border Strikers coach, Never Malunga is worried ahead of the encounter as two of his players are facing a late fitness test while one in already out due to suspension.William Nyoni and Michael Mwenya are in the casualty ward while Tinashe Mugadzaweta is one of the seven players in the league that have been hit with suspensions after picking up three yellow cards.Bosso will also be without captain Erick Mudzingwa.Other suspended players include Mostafa Ponyera of Tsholotsho, Gift Mbweti of Hwange, Tichaona Mapungwana of Triangle United, Liberty Chakoroma and Jimmy Tigere of Ngezi Platinum Stars and Harare City respectively. We have complications as we prepare for the game. Two of my players have injuries and are subject to late fitness tests while Mugadzaweta is out due to suspension. We are preparing well for Bosso though, said Malunga.He is confident of pulling out another giant killing act following the 2-1 downing of Dynamos at the same venue a few weeks ago. Anything can happen on the field of play. If my guys play according to our game plan I am sure all will be well, Beitbridge will celebrate, said Malunga.Border Strikers come up against a resurrected Highlanders although analysts say the Bulawayo giants had been playing well even in matches that they lost in the second half, just being unlucky with goals.Inspirational skipper Mudzingwa, who will miss the match due to suspension has already issued an instruction to his soldiers; crush them .Mudzingwa said the so-called small teams always rise when they face giants but that must not happen tomorrow just like the football joke that small teams must know that in real life Goliath always wins. The guys can t afford to be complacent and need to bury Border Strikers because such teams always give us problems. Remember we struggled to beat them in the first leg and what the guys need to do is crush them early and concentrate throughout the game, said Mudzingwa.With Mudzingwa out, coach Erol Akbay is likely to throw in Douglas Sibanda in the holding midfield role as pushing the aggressive Peter Muduhwa might destabilize the central defence. Simon Munawa is another option for Bosso in that department.Rahman Kutsanzira, likely to be the most experienced infield player on the day, will keep his wing position with young Brian Banda operating on the other side of the wing.New boy Allan Gahadzikwa, so full of running last Sunday will operate behind the two young strikers, Prince Dube and Nhlanhla Ndlovu. Ariel Sibanda will guard the goal.The Dube and Ndlovu combination, while yet to find the back of the net, will surely be a thorn in the flesh for many a defence and it could just be a matter of time before floodgates open.Bosso s last official match in Beitbridge was a 3-2 win over now defunct Tripple B on May 1, 2013. @skhumoyo2000