Soccer is one of the most popular sports in Europe and the Americas. It has a vivid and interesting history in the world of sports. Early evidence of soccer being played as a sport finds occurrence in China during the second and third centuries BC. In China, it was during the Han dynasty that people dribbled leather balls by kicking it into a small net. Recorded facts also support the fact that Romans and Greeks used to play ball for fun and frolic. Some facts point to Kyoto in Japan where kicking of ball was a popular sport. It is said that early growth of the modern soccer started in England. Some amusing facts even mention that the first ball used was the head of some Danish brigand. It is said that during medieval times, the old form of soccer used to allow many ill practices like kicking, punching, biting and gouging. The main aim was to carry the ball to a target spot. People grew so fond of the game that they would throng the field all day long.Sometimes the competition grew fierce and masses got so wild that there were frequent incidents of violence during the game. It is also said that soldiers admired the game so much that they missed archery practice to watch it.King Edward III banned soccer in 1365 owing to the growing incidents of violence and military indulgence in the sport. In 1424 King James I of Scotland also proclaimed in the Parliament Na man play at the Fute-ball (No man shall play football).When and where exactly did soccer start is a question that has no precise answer to it. You can easily say that this popular game has been played for more than three thousand years. The nativity of modern-day soccer must be credited to Britain. It was also known as the association football, with Scotland and England being the co-founders of the systematic game of soccer.Modern History of Soccer: 18th Century OnwardIn 1815, a major development took place that made soccer popular in Universities, Colleges and Schools. The popular English School and Eton College came forth with a set of rules, known as the Cambridge Rules. Football was segregated into two groups; some colleges and schools opted for Rugby rules that allowed tripping, shin kicking and also carrying the ball. These rules were exclusively prohibited as per the Cambridge rules.King Edward III banned soccer in 1365, owing to the growing incidents of violence and military indulgence in the sport.The history of modern-day soccer was established in 1863. In October 1863, eleven representatives from London clubs and schools met at the Freemason s Tavern to set up common fundamental rules to control the matches amongst themselves. The outcome of this meeting was the formation of the Football Association. In December 1863, the Rugby Football and Association football finally split as the supporters of the Rugby School rules walked out.Firmly establishing the foundation of soccer in 1869, the Football Association strictly banned any kind of handling of the ball. Soccer s popularity spread rapidly during the 1800s as British sailors, traders and soldiers introduced the sport to different parts of the globe.Italians, Austrians and Germans drew to Europe, while Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil adopted the sport in South America. Fifa was established in the year 1904 and by early 1930s, different leagues were operating from various countries. Fifa is credited with organising the first world cup in Uruguay.The history of soccer is rich with events, development and its growing craze all over the world. You will find yourself amazed as you learn about different times of this wonderful sport that has held our awe and admiration for over 3000 years.History of soccer World Cup soccerAn international soccer governing body Fifa came into existence in 1904. The aim of the organisation was to host championship matches between professional leagues from different nations. The F d ration Internationale de Football Association (Fifa) first conceived the idea of world cup soccer championship as early as 1926. The Fifa president Jules Rimet thought of an event that would fall in between the Olympics. The original idea did not work well owing to the outstretched hosting of the winter and summer Olympics.Rimet along with other Fifa representatives first organised the event in 1930. The very first world cup did not even include qualifying rounds. Teams from Europe included France, Belgium, Yugoslavia and Romania. Other European teams complained about the distance to Uruguay and refused to travel so far.The original gold trophy had the name of Jules Rimet carved on the trophy and it was contested three times in the 1930s. There were a total of 13 teams in the first world cup. The remaining countries besides the host Uruguay were Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru, Mexico and the United States. Due to the Second World War, the competition was put a 12-year long halt.The first world cup soccer match started on July 13, 1930. France defeated Mexico in a game of 4 to 1, paving way for a glorious world cup beginning. After the war, the Fifa World Cup gained worldwide recognition as the sole sporting event of the new world. The World Cup has been held since 1958 in Europe and the Americas. The World Cup Executive Committee s decision in May 1996 made a major decision of selecting Korea and Japan as co-hosts for the 2002 edition.A largely male-dominated sport, women soccer has also seen some changes. The first women s World Cup was held in China in 1991. The US won the championship the first time ever in the history of women soccer.Ever since 1930, the world has witnessed only seven different winners in the 16 tournaments held so far. The Fifa World Cup has seen wonderful victories and some dramatic twists such as England s defeat in 1950, North Korea s loss in Italy in 1966 and Cameroon s opening match defeat of Argentina in 1990.Fifa World Cup today draws people from all over the globe. After so many years, the world cup has seen the best and the worst in the sphere of soccer. The soccer world stands taller in recognition and popularity with the Fifa World Cup. Soccer is the most loved and admired game with a history of over 3000 years. historyofsoccer.info