Director Finance Albert Malamo (left) hands over a gift to best allied student investigation Staff Sgt Haikela of the Namibian special forces Provost during a graduation parade at the School of Military Police at HQ1 Brigade yesterdayTanaka Mrewa, Chronicle Reporter WOMEN have been applauded for setting an example and breaking barriers in the military. Speaking at a graduation ceremony of 121 non-commissioned officers at the School of Military Police in Bulawayo yesterday, the Director of Finance, Colonel Albert Malamo, said he was proud to see women challenging their male counterparts.Eight of the graduands were female. The fact that they are graduating today shows strides that women have made in breaking barriers in this male dominated profession. In line with the organisation s gender policy, let me say well done for your efforts. May everyone know that success is never defined by or determined by gender. It is a result of hard work, determination and loyalty. Keep applying yourselves fully in all your endeavours and prove that males and females have the same capabilities, said Col Malamo.The Colonel praised 12 Namibian officers who were part of the graduands. I hope you enjoyed your stay in Zimbabwe and you have seen for yourselves that this is a peaceful nation unlike negative information being spread by hostile countries and on social media. The training exchange programme between our country and Namibia continues to demonstrate the ever increasing cooperation between the two defence forces. I have no doubt that the training attained here will go a long way in enhancing your policing skills , he said.The non-commissioned officers completed six courses, namely: provost senior non commissioned officers, provost senior investigations, basic martial arts, military police records and maintenance, white collar crime investigation and the regimental police.Graduands were drawn from the Zimbabwe National Army, Air Force of Zimbabwe, ZRP, Zimbabwe Prison and Correctional Services and students from Namibia Defence Forces Military Police.The training programme commenced on July 18 this year.Col Malamo said: Remember you are the eyes and ears for the commander so you are urged to uphold your standards of military discipline in whatever duty assigned to you. The knowledge you have gained will enable you to supervise provost personnel and administer discipline in your various organisations. @tannytkay.