Southern Region Women’s football chairperson Takundwa Chimundiya (left) stresses a point during the Thembalethu Foundation Soccer Tournament press conference yesterday. Tournament director Fungai Nyamutukwa-Mpfeka follows proceedings. Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter SEVEN Bulawayo women’s soccer teams will compete in the inaugural Thembalethu Foundation tournament to be held from December 21-22 at Raylton Sports Club. New Orleans, Highlanders Royals, Street Sets, Sobukhazi, Borrow Jets, Real Stars and Cowdray Park Queens will take part in the tourney. Tournament director Fungai Nyamutukwa- Mpfeka, a former national team player and manager, said the objective of the competition is to “change lives and bring hope to girls through football”. “As Thembalethu Foundation, we have set up a three-year project meant to change lives and bring hope to the girls through football. “We will do this by hosting tournaments where we are going to donate team kit, individual kit and boots. Members of Thembalethu Foundation living outside Zimbabwe have been at the forefront in terms of sourcing kit and individual prizes that we will give to the winners,” said Nyamutukwa-Mpfeka. She said they had approached strategic partners like Bakers Inn, Swivel Metal Engineering and Nokel Security, who pledged to support the tournament in kind. “There is no prize money for this tournament because we feel things like the playing kit, individual kit and boots we’re giving out will leave a lasting legacy and help supplement what the clubs already have. Maybe in future when resources permit we are going to give out money. “We’re grateful to Nokel Security, Swivel Metal Engineering and Bakers Inn who have shown keen interest in supporting this project meant to help the girl-child,” Nyamutukwa-Mpfeka said. Southern Region Women’s Football chairperson Takundwa Chimundiya welcomed Thembalethu Foundation’s gesture, which he believes will go a long way in developing game. “We appreciate this partnership with Thembalethu Foundation, which we hope to see grow to become one of the biggest girl-child empowerment initiatives. Women’s soccer doesn’t enjoy much support and when people come on board, we’re happy. We call on others to emulate them. Our teams are ready for the tournament and are looking forward to the draw that will be held at Raylton Sports Club on Thursday,” said Chimundiya. @ZililoR