Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A-22-YEAR-old man committed suicide in Bulawayo s Iminyela suburb yesterday, reportedly because he was broke and had nowhere to live. Evans Chitegedo (22) was found hanging about 50 metres away from his aunt s house at around 5AM by some neighbours.Bulawayo Metropolitan acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Abednico Ncube said: I can confirm we received a report of sudden death by hanging. The man did not leave a note or anything. Investigations are underway. Chitegedo s aunt, Mrs Eunice Makwangadza, said the deceased took his own life at a time when he was allegedly having serious financial problems and no longer had a place to stay. On Wednesday night he had supper at his niece s place, at Iminyela Flats but they don t know where he went thereafter, only to discover him hanging near my house the following morning, she said. I chased him out of my home in June as he was continuously misbehaving which I couldn t tolerate anymore. Evans was a very naughty young man who did a lot of bad things, such as smoking mbanje. He engaged in drinking sprees and would at times sleep out without notifying me. Not only that, he was now sleeping with one of my nieces in my house and would not open the door for me and for that reason, I had kicked him out of my home. Mrs Makwangadza said she tried to take Chitegedo to church and offered counselling to no avail. He was in and out of jobs saying he won t work for peanuts and his last job was somewhere at Kelvin North. Recently I was informed that his friend who had taken him in at his place in Lobengula suburb also kicked him out. We didn t know where he was sleeping but he frequently visited his niece at Iminyela Flats, where he would eat supper, she said. I woke up to do my daily chores before I left for work and as I was outside, one of my neighbours told me that someone had hanged himself on a tree that is about 50 metres away from my house. I actually went and looked at the body but didn t recognise it was Evans because he wore a hood and probably because I least expected that. Mrs Makwangadza said after she returned home, another neighbour came to inform her that it was Chitegedo who was hanging and she went back and confirmed that. @winnie_masara