Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A 20-YEAR-OLD Plumtree rape victim has withdrawn charges against two men who allegedly took turns to attack her saying she had forgiven them as they committed the crime while under the influence of alcohol. The woman allegedly met Itai Johanes (23) and Simbarashe Chingori (32) outside a bar in Plumtree at around 3AM and they allegedly pretended to be Good Samaritans and offered her free transport home. They then allegedly diverted from their way home and raped her at knife point.Johanes and Chingori appeared before Plumtree magistrate, Mr Taurai Manwere yesterday and they were told that the rape charges against them had been withdrawn before plea.They were released after a two week Plumtree Prison stay.In her withdrawal affidavit submitted to the court, the woman said she felt pity for the families of the two men. I hereby withdraw charges against Johanes and Chingori because they have shown remorse over what they did. We stay in the same neighbourhood and they are both family men. If they go to prison no one will take care of their families. When the incident happened we were all drunk and I feel that they did what they did under the influence of alcohol. I haven t been influenced by anyone to withdraw the charges, she said in her affidavit.Prosecuting, Mrs Rose Sibanda said on the day in question Johanes and Chingori offered the woman a lift. She agreed as she and Johanes lived in the same area.However, the two allegedly diverted into a bushy area where they took turns to rape her at knife point. Johanes and Chingori saw the woman standing by the entrance of Dumms Night Club at 3AM and they offered her a lift in a taxi as the nightclub was about to close. She pointed out that she didn t have money but they offered to transport her for free. On the way to her home in Dingumuzi Suburb Chingori who was driving the car diverted the vehicle into a bushy area where he parked. Chingori and Johanes ordered the woman to remove her clothes but she resisted, she said.Mrs Sibanda said Chingori locked the car doors and ordered the woman to remove her underwear at knife point. Johanes allegedly raped her first while Chingori held her down to stop her from resisting.She said Johanes then held the woman down while Chingori raped her.She said after her ordeal, the woman asked to relieve herself and when they unlocked the door she fled from the scene and reported the matter to the police.@DubeMatutu