Families were lined up at the point of departure hoping to be evacuated from eastern Aleppo Al JazeeraMilitias loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad have reportedly killed at least one person and injured more while firing on a convoy of injured evacuees from the remaining rebel-held pockets of east Aleppo. Speaking to Al Jazeera yesterday morning, Ibrahim Abu Allaith of the Syrian Civil Defence said that one person was killed when pro-government militias opened fire. At least four more were injured, among them a medical worker.Dozens of injured civilians were evacuated from eastern Aleppo yesterday afternoon as part of a ceasefire expected to last three days and result in the transfer of thousands of civilians and fighters from the embattled territory. Zouhir Al Shimale, an independent journalist in east Aleppo, said the evacuation was still under way despite the attacks. There hasn t been fighting since the morning, he said, explaining that hundreds of families have gathered at the departure point for the buses.Earlier yesterday, the convoy began a journey which is intended to take patients through government territory into the rebel-held western Aleppo countryside as agreed in an evacuation deal this week. Civilians are given the choice to stay or leave if they stay, they ll be under regime control. Most of the people want to go because they are afraid of potential massacres by the regime, Shimale added. In recent days, people are desperate to get to somewhere where we have the supplies food, medicine, fuel like we used to have in the days before the siege. Even if they are in refugee camps, but people still want to leave the besieged area. As part of the agreement, the Russian defence ministry said that it was preparing for the transfer of rebel fighters by buses and ambulances to Idlib city, located some 65 kilometres from Aleppo.Deadly fighting broke out on Wednesday after a similar truce deal collapsed.Under the initial plan, thousands of civilians and rebel fighters were due to evacuate the east of Syria s second city, scene of some of the worst violence in more than five years of war across the country.The delay came on Wednesday morning when pro-government Shia militias demanded that civilians in Kafraya and al-Fua two towns besieged by armed opposition groups be evacuated, as well.Yesterday s agreement allowed for the evacuation of wounded civilians from Kafraya and Fua, and ambulances were reportedly en route to the two towns by noon local time. Turkey said it would meet with Russia and Iran in Moscow on December 27 to discuss a political solution to the conflict in Syria.Syria s army has pressed a month-long assault that has seen it take more than 90 percent of the former rebel stronghold in east Aleppo.Turkey has said those leaving would be taken to Idlib province, which is controlled by a powerful rebel alliance that includes Jabhat Fateh al-Sham. Sharif Nashashibi, a writer and Middle East analyst, said the Syrian government s advances in Aleppo had created a sense of emboldenment among government forces and their allies. No doubt this is a big blow to the opposition, but this isn t a prelude to outright victory as the regime and its supporters are portraying it, he said. It s fanciful to think Assad can just roll on and take the whole country. Even if he managed, it would be on the backs of Russian, Iranian and Hezbollah forces. The UN said on Tuesday that it had credible reports of at least 82 civilians, including 11 women and 13 children, being executed in recent days.And the UN s Commission of Inquiry for Syria said it had received reports opposition fighters were blocking civilians from fleeing Aleppo and using them as human shields.Aleppo, a cultural and economic hub second only to Damascus in importance, had been split between a rebel-controlled east and government-held west since 2012. It was unclear how many civilians remained in rebel territory, after an estimated 130,000 fled to other parts of Aleppo during the government advance since mid-November.Syria s conflict has evolved from largely unarmed protests against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad into a full-scale civil war that has killed hundreds of thousands and displaced more than half of the country s prewar population. Al Jazeera