Dr Lazarus DokoraAuxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Government has said parents must pay outstanding fees before collecting their children s public examination results as failure to do so can compromise school operations. In saying this, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Dr Lazarus Dokora appeared to make a U-turn from the earlier position that schools must not withhold results over unpaid fees.The minister spoke on the need to pay fees in Parliament while responding to a question from Manicaland Senator Cde Shadreck Chipanga who had asked how Government was handling the issue of Grade Seven results that were released last week in relation to those who had not paid fees. For us to say that now the results are out and a child will be looking forward to his results but as a parent you are in debt in terms of fees, we need to pay our fees. Do we want to destroy our schools? Our hope is that as you go to collect results, just carry money to clear off the fees debt that you have. If we do not, we will end up destroying our schools, said Dr Dokora. We all know that our education system has been considerate and that we should not burden the child but the point is we need to pay. What I want is a situation whereby all children are paid up in fees. The schools run using the very fees that are paid by the parents. I came to this august House a number of times in the past three years ago, supporting the idea that a child is not at fault but the parent is obliged to pay fees. Dr Dokora said he envisaged a situation where all pupils are paid up to keep schools running.He said in the majority of cases, parents who will not have paid fees and levies at primary school are the ones who want to send their children to boarding schools. You might be the guardian or might not have the papers to look after that child but you have the responsibility and the custodianship of that child. So, that person is obligated to pay fees, he said. So in boarding schools, as you get into the school, you need food. So, what food will you eat if you have not paid any fees. Honestly, you cannot be on part payment from January to December. The money is not much, it is $15, $5, $35 which is equivalent to roughly two chickens. @Auxiliak