Nkosilathi Sibanda, Sports Reporter TWO Zambian basketball teams will compete against 10 local sides in this year s edition of the Matabeleland North Unity Day tournament at Hwange s Makwika Sports Ground this weekend. Defending champions Unicorns will face a tough battle to retain the title against Zambian side Mukuni Warriors, Oilers, City Knights, Falcon, Hwange Heats, Black Hornets and Ghetto Magic in the men s category.The line-up in the ladies challenge favours Hwange Heats, who have been enjoying an easy stroll in recent league games.Heats will face Angels, Unicorns and a yet to be named Zambian team.Matabeleland North Basketball president Pendrick Ndlovu said they expect a top drawer hoop fiesta at a tournament aimed at bringing together players, supporters and the business community in the spirit of upholding unity in the country. This is the first time we are inviting foreign teams to be part of this grand tournament that celebrates Zimbabwe s Unity Day. The idea is more than just competing. We want to use basketball as a unifier and this is something big for the sporting community, Ndlovu said.The Matabeleland North League is on hold until the second weekend of January and Hwange Heats go into the Christmas break on top of the log.Heats were crowned champions of the Heroes Day tournament in September after out-competing Victoria Falls Clippers, Ghetto Magic, Ingagula, Black Dime, Lupane State University and Bulawayo s City Knights. We are going for the festive season break and set to resume our games in January. Despite not having enough financial back-up, we managed to fulfil our fixtures. Teams from places like Dete find it hard to commit to games played elsewhere because of lack of funding. Overall we are going in the right direction in promoting basketball in the province, said Ndlovu.He said there were plans to launch a schools league next year to give the game a grassroots base to identify future talent. We are in talks with the schools on how best we can form a league that combines all schools in the province. We have had a hard time trying to lure people into the sport. It was agreed that the best plan is to start introducing basketball at primary and secondary school level. Most schools in Matabeleland North will be playing basketball from January. @NkosieLegend