Caps United celebrate winning the 2016 Premiership title in this file photo.Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS have become the first club to congratulate Caps United for winning the 2016 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League title. Makepekepe lifted their fifth league title in history on the last day of the games with a 1-0 win over Chapungu United at Ascot Stadium, a result which rendered their closest rivals FC Platinum s 3-0 away win over Tsholotsho inconsequential. The victory over Chapungu took Caps United s points tally to an unassailable 63 as FC Platinum finished at 61 points.In a statement yesterday acting Highlanders chairman Modern Ngwenya said Caps United must now represent the county well in the Caf Champions League next year. On behalf of Highlanders I would like to congratulate Caps United for winning the 2016 league Championship. We wish them all the best as they proceed to represent the country in the Caf Champions League, said Ngwenya.He said as Highlanders they still remained satisfied that they performed well even though they did not win the league themselves, a dream which almost became a reality only to turn into a nightmare, especially following the departure of their leading goal scorer Bruce Kangwa for Tanzania s Azam. Bosso struggled to cope thereafter. It was a great season in which we performed relatively well. Even though we came third we remain proud that we surpassed our top four target set for the technical team at the beginning of the season. The league was characterised by breathtaking performances from the top three teams. The fact that the championship went to the wire shows how competitive the league was and we were very much in the matrix. The season was also a year we buried the DeMbare ghost that haunted us in previous years, said Ngwenya.Highlanders managed back to back triumphs over Dynamos, beating them 2-0 at Rufaro Stadium in the first leg before completing a memorable season with a 2-1 win at Barbourfields Stadium.Meanwhile, the two giants Bosso and DeMbare clash at Barbourfields Stadium this Sunday as a shut down to the Bosso @90 celebrations. There is no better way of celebrating our 90 years than a victory over our perennial rivals this coming Sunday. There shall be a musical extravaganza from morning until midday. Our very own legends will curtain raise before the main match, said Ngwenya.Highlanders are likely to field the rookies that routed Hwange 3-0 in the last match of the league in the same venue.@Skhumoyo2000.