Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent A FRESH salary dispute has erupted in the sugar industry in Chiredzi with workers unions accusing Tongaat Huletts management of frustrating the collective bargaining process. Documents in possession of Business Chronicle indicate that workers, through the Zimbabwe Sugarcane Milling Industry Workers Union (ZSMIWU), have written a number of letters to the company requesting a meeting to deliberate on the issue but the employer keeps changing dates.The union says continued delays have stretched workers patience beyond limit and that the workers had no option but to embark on yet another strike.In November last year about 16 000 Tongaat Huletts workers embarked on a month-long industrial action over salary adjustments, which resulted in total breakdown of operations at the company s Hippo Valley and Triangle Estates.The workers were demanding a salary adjustment from $180 to $250, which they said was below their peers at the company s Mozambique, South Africa and Swaziland units who are understood to be earning about $350 per month.The strike was, however, stopped after the intervention of the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare, which promised to pave way for smooth negotiations between the two parties.ZSMIWU secretary general Retired Captain Faster Gono said their employer was not treating the welfare of workers as a matter of importance, hence the reluctance to bring the issue of salaries on the table. We have written to Tongaat Huletts as a worker s union requesting to have a collective bargaining meeting since March this year but the employer has not been forthcoming. We expect the company to give its lowest employee at least $250 per month because the $180 they are getting now can no longer sustain them, he said. The employer continues giving lame excuses for postponing the meeting. If it continues like this another crippling-industrial action is inevitable, Capt Gono said.He claimed that the lowveld-based company produced sugar of the best quality as compared to Tongaat s other units in Mozambique, South Africa and Swaziland adding that the firm has capacity to increase workers salaries to at least $250. Tongaat has the capacity to award its workers a salary increase because the stock exchange-listed company rakes in huge profits every year. They make profit, which they can use to award a salary increase for the workers, he said.Tongaat corporate affairs and communications manager Ms Adelaide Chikunguru could not be reached for comment.However, a senior company official said the company was reluctant to engage workers on the issue as it was pending before the courts. The issue about salary increments is now in the courts and we cannot be seen discussing court issues. It is subjudice, said the official.Meanwhile, more than 50 Tongaat Hulett employees have reportedly lost their jobs after an alleged gaffe in the company s accounts department saw them getting double salaries for 10 months. Sources said, the boob was uncovered after an audit and the culprits were reported to police. Business Chronicle failed to verify this report with Ms Chikunguru.@walterbmswazie2