Thupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge Bureau ZIMBABWEAN and South African authorities have intensified efforts to fight an increase in cases of smuggling of children between the two countries. About 120 children have been rescued as they were being smuggled along the boundary line since the beginning of this month, prompting security agents to step up efforts to stop the practice.Twenty more children were this year repatriated from the neighbouring country after being intercepted between Musina and Polokwane en-route to Johannesburg.It is reported that 23 others, who were found in Musina on Sunday evening are yet to be returned to Zimbabwe.The police officer commanding Beitbridge district, Chief Superintendent Francis Phiri said patrols have since been intensified at the many illegal crossing points along the Limpopo River, which include Dite, Panda-Mine, Mai Maria, Tshivhalamakula and River Ranch areas. We are not taking issues of irregular migration and child smuggling lightly. We are out in full force to get the criminals and we re also reviewing our strategies in line with their modus operandi. The law will descend heavily on both the child traffickers and the parents, warned Chief Supt Phiri.He said the two countries were working with a Non-Governmental Organisation Stop Trafficking of people to ensure that they bring criminals to book.Limpopo s police spokesperson, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said besides patrolling the boundary line they were also mounting a number of roadblocks on major roads in the province. Our officers have been thoroughly trained on detection skills and how best to handle issues of trafficking. The Stop the Trafficking Organisation is also lobbying our parliament to treat this crime with the gravity accorded to matters relating to domestic violence. It is important that the parliament should come up with stiffer and deterrent laws to prevent the wilful abuse of children, he said.Brig Mojapelo said irregular migration was rife in Limpopo province due to its proximity to Zimbabwe s border.Zimbabwe s Consul-General to South Africa, Mr Batiraishe Mukonoweshuro said the rate at which children were being smuggled across the border was appalling. We are very disappointed with the increased number of children being smuggled across Beitbridge border post and unmanned illegal crossing points. Parents are urged to ensure that children travel by orthodox and traceable transport to avoid putting them at risk of abduction, he said.Mr Mukonoweshuro added that it was sad that most parents paid a lot of money to the traffickers instead of properly documenting them at a lower cost.It costs between R1 500 and R2 000 to illegally transport a minor between Zimbabwe and South Africa, while an ordinary passport can be obtained at $53 in Zimbabwe.He said in most cases it was difficult to trace and re-unite undocumented children with their parents. Letting minors travel with strangers and inadequate documents makes them susceptible to crimes such as rape and sodomy, he said.Mr Mukonoweshuro said it was important for parents travelling with their children to ensure that they carry passports and long birth certificates (with both paternity and maternity details), and a power of attorney in the case of single parents travelling with the children. In December last year two children were attacked and killed by a hippopotamus under the New Limpopo Bridge while being smuggled to South Africa.A five year old girl disappeared with a man who had been hired to transport her to South Africa when they were attacked by the hippo.