Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter CHIEFS and village heads have demanded that they be involved in the selection of beneficiaries and distribution of food aid to help curb corruption. The traditional leaders have said their exclusion results in unfair food distribution as some intended beneficiaries are losing out.Chief Nyangazonke in Matabeleland South said some chiefs were only informed that they are in the drought relief committee but have never been consulted on issues regarding the programme. Food is being unfairly distributed out there, with some people benefiting yet they do not deserve to. Some people are getting double allocations of grain, at a time when others are failing to access food as a result of unfair co-ordination. The programme is being implemented right under our noses yet we were not consulted by the local authority. We are only informed when there is unfair activity, and there is no way I can then resolve such matters, he said.He said elderly people and orphans who were in serious need of assistance in his area were being side-lined and the selection process had to be transparent and thorough.Chief Bango said he had no idea people in his communities were receiving food aid as he has never been informed. No one has ever consulted or rather, even just informed me that such a programme is on-going in my area. If some chiefs are consulted, lucky them because with me, it means my services are not required, he said.In Matabeleland North, Chief Gampu also said he was never consulted and feels that s the starting point for corruption. Not that we want to control the programme but our being part of it enhances fairness and reduces corruption. It is only important we help select beneficiaries as community leadership as one person can t do that alone, said Chief Gampu.Matobo District Administrator Mr Robert Mzezewa said traditional leadership was key in drought relief programmes as they know the most vulnerable members of the community. Actually, traditional leaders, who are our chiefs and village heads are closer to the community and are expected to select beneficiaries for fairness s sake. Councillors were initially just used to coordinate the distribution process and not the selection of beneficiaries. This was done to curb corruption.Although some councillors hold the keys in some areas during food distribution, it should not be so, he said.Mr Mzezewa said the drought relief committee involves stakeholders in the food and nutrition sector, comprising of about 20 members such as the DA, social services, Grain Marketing Board, Agritex, all security forces, among others. Traditional leaders come in the part of selecting the beneficiaries because the others don t know the deserving people on the ground, he said. @winnie_masara