Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter POLICE in Matabeleland South Province are looking for 18 hardcore criminals that include nine wanted for murder while others are theft and armed robbery suspects. According to information released by the police, most of the criminals are from Esigodini and Bulawayo.Matabeleland South Provincial Police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele said some of the criminals have been on the run for years.He said the murder suspects are Mnconywa Ncube (34) of Gwanda, Mhlanguli Ncube (33) of Esigodini, Mkhokheli Ncube (30) of Esigodini, Peter Phiri (37) of Beitbridge, Godwell Sibanda (26) from Esigodini, Mathew Njelele (age unknown) from Binga, Mthokozisi Ndlovu (age unknown) from Esigodini, Artwell Bonga (41) from Hwange and Dennis Ndlovu (24) from Bulawayo. On the armed robbers list we have Farai Tapfumanei whose age is not known and he is from Bulawayo and Joshua Mapisauanga, age not known too, from Karoi. Stanford Tshuma (42) of Plumtree is wanted for fraud, while Chirairo Chiza (39) from Masvingo is on the wanted list for theft, he said.Insp Ndebele said the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) serious frauds section is investigating the cases.Meanwhile, police are hunting for Ernest Nxumalo s five sons who allegedly committed murder in Shangani on Tuesday.Insp Ndebele said the five were identified as Dumisani (37), Trevor (35), Elphas (29), Busiso (28) and Mduduzi Nxumalo (24).The six family members from Insiza District chased a suspected serial rapist into a police base where they allegedly stabbed him to death.The deceased allegedly raped and stabbed a woman from the family last week, leaving her hospitalised.The alleged serial rapist was on the police s wanted list for about six counts of rape, theft cases and was a known thug who had several pending cases in court.The family ambushed Misheck Khanye who had disappeared soon after committing the crime last week. They caught up with him as he disembarked from a truck at Shangani Business Centre and killed him.The five brothers fled from the scene leaving their father behind, who was then arrested.Insp Ndebele has discouraged members of the public from engaging in vigilante justice. We are encouraging members of the public to desist from mob justice. We advise you to instead assist police by giving them information on the whereabouts of the criminals and police will then do their job of catching them and bringing them to book. It is noted that in the event of instant justice, some innocent lives are lost and instead of having a criminal brought to book, a bigger number may end up in jail, he said. Instant justice is not called for no matter what the person might have done. Insp Ndebele said the suspects have been evading justice and called on members of the public to assist police in locating them. @winnie_masara