PSL chairman Peter Dube chats with FC Platinum&#8217;s midfielder Winston Mhango at Mater Dei Hospital yesterdayRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter FC Platinum s defensive midfielder Winston Mhango and striker Charles Sibanda are praying for miraculous recoveries to enable them help their club in its championship quest. The two are receiving treatment at Mater Dei Hospital in Bulawayo after surviving a car crash that killed one person in Filabusi on their way to Bulawayo from Zvishavane on Saturday night.The vehicle they were travelling in was involved in a head on collision when the driver tried to avoid a stray cow.The accident claimed the life of a Mimosa worker Welly Chiyangwa. How we survived with just bruises and cuts is by the grace of God. Out of nowhere, the driver saw a cow and as he tried to avoid it, our vehicle encroached onto oncoming traffic and that s how the accident happened. It was so fast that I can t recall other details, said Mhango. I thank God, the club, family and friends who have been supportive. Hopefully we will be able to recover in time for at least one of the remaining matches, he said.The defensive midfielder, who has had a terrific season for the platinum miners and probably has a claim among the Soccer Stars of the Year finalists, is nursing bruises and a cut on his left leg.Sibanda lost some his teeth and is also nursing bruises. I didn t break any part of my body, which is just a miracle. I don t recall anything because everything happened very fast and at that time I think I was busy on my cellphone. Judging by the look of these injuries, I think I should be able to be back in action soon and it will all depend on the scan and how I respond, Sibanda said.Both players had played in FC Platinum s 3-0 win over Harare City in the Chibuku Super Cup semi-finals at Mandava, with Sibanda scoring one of the goals.PSL chairman Peter Dube visited the players at Mater Dei Hospital yesterday and wished them a speedy recovery. Our thoughts and prayers are with the boys, their families and FC Platinum during this time. We are also praying for those who were involved in that accident and wish those in hospital speedy recoveries, said Dube. @ZililoR