Mighty Warriors line up in BrazilHarare Bureau THE Mighty Warriors opponents at the Africa Women Nations of Cup finals in Cameroon next month are not wasting any time in engaging in international friendly matches. Zimbabwe, though, remain in limbo.Cameroon, South Africa and Egypt have intensified their preparations for the tournament which begins on November 19.On Saturday, Banyana Banyana hosted Egypt at Dobsonville Stadium in Johannesburg in an international friendly match which the hosts won 3-1.The same day Cameroon were in Nairobi for a friendly match which the West Africans won 1-0.The Mighty Warriors are yet to get into camp with Zifa singing the chorus they are still sorting out the logistics.Cameroon coach Enow Ngacho told the official Caf website that they now know where they stand.The two teams will play another friendly match on November 6, in Limbe, just before the tournament gets underway. It was a good match for both sides because it showed us how far we have come as far as preparation is concerned.&#8220;We have also tested the strength of our players to see what we need to do before the tournament starts in three weeks, he said.The only debutantes at the tournament, Kenya, in Group A with defending champions Nigeria and West Africans Ghana and Mali also picked positives from the friendly match. We had very good scoring chances and we only conceded to Cameroon through a penalty. I think all along we wanted to play against a West African side before the women s Afcon because it will give us what to expect. from what we have seen today I am quite optimistic we can compete with our opponents very well, said Harambee Starlets David Ouma.Following their participation at the Olympics Games in August, the Mighty Warriors have only regrouped for a friendly match against Egypt at Rufaro last month.They beat the Egyptians 2-1 in that match.Mighty Warriors gaffer Shadreck Mlauzi said his plans had been affected. It is an extremely difficult situation. Obviously when things don t work out the way you want, one is not happy. We were supposed to go into camp early October,&#8221; said the coach who said they were hoping to engage Ghana and Namibia before rounding up with another preparatory match once they arrived in Cameroon. We will see, we will hear from the association.&#8221;Zimbabwe s first match is against South Africa on November 19 in Yaounde at Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo before they meet Egypt three days later at the same venue.They complete the group stages with a match against Cameroon on November 25.Top two teams from each group will progress to the next round.