The car which rolled several times and killed Andrew GethiSukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent AN International Organisation of Migration (IOM) official died while his four-year-old son escaped unharmed after his vehicle veered of the road and overturned several times near his house in Plumtree. Witnesses said Andrew Gethi (43), a Kenyan national who was working in Plumtree but had recently been transferred to South Sudan, lost control of his vehicle at a curve at about 4PM on Thursday.Gethi, who was married to a Zimbabwean, is said to have been speeding at the time of the accident.Matiwaza councillor, Mr Simiso Ndlovu, confirmed the accident. He left his home with his son and on his way back he accelerated and failed to negotiate a curve as he was approaching his house, he said.Mr Ndlovu said Gethi was seen drinking at a bar in the border town just before the incident.A Dombodema man, Mr Ronald Ncube, who witnessed the accident, said Gethi died on the way to hospital.He said the car rolled down a slope for about 50 metres.Mr Ncube said Gethi s wife, Ms Sibhekumusa Ndlovu, rushed to the scene of the accident soon after it happened. I was walking past when I heard some noise. Gethi s car rolled several times and when I got there his son was lying on the ground but he was unharmed. His wife heard the sound of the crash and she came out of their house and found me already at the scene. I didn t know the man as I was just passing by but we rushed him to hospital in his wife s car. I was holding Gethi and just as we left the accident scene he died, Mr Ncube said.He said Gethi had severe injuries on his head and body. He said when they found him, he was alive but could not speak or move and was breathing with some difficulties.Mr Ncube said there was also a big cylinder in the car which he assumed could have hit Gethi when his car was overturning. He said the four-year-old boy was shaken by the accident.Mr Ncube said there was a bottle of whiskey in the car which was half empty. @DubeMatutu