Siqokoqela MphokoChronicle Reporter GIANT retailer Choppies Zimbabwe has extended its footprint to Ruwa on the outskirts of Harare where it is setting up shop in yet another milestone that is set to create 50 job opportunities for locals. Managing director Mr Siqokoqela Mphoko said yesterday that the new business would open its doors to the public today. Yes, we are opening our new branch, the 31st shop in the country. We are creating 50 jobs there in line with our thrust of empowering people in the country and assisting the Government in developing the economy. The new shop is situated in Ruwa along Mutare Road on the outskirts of Harare, he said.Mr Mphoko said Zimbabwe was ripe for business hence his company was expanding its operations.He also said the coming in of bond notes by the end of this month should not scare away businesses. As Choppies we are forging ahead with business and doing our part even when some fear the coming of bond notes, he said.Since its entrance into the local market three years ago, the Bulawayo-headquartered firm has been on an aggressive investment drive having opened business across major cities and towns in the country.The company has as a result created 2000 plus jobs and become a market for dozens of local industry suppliers.Two weeks ago, the giant retailer received a compliance award for faithfully paying all its taxes to the state by the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra).Mr Mphoko also dispelled a rumour circulating on social media claiming that Choppies was refusing usage of plastic money in its shops. That claim is not true. Some people took a portion of a notice at our Nelson Mandela branch in Harare, which indicated that one of our till machines was not working and directed clients to another till. That notice was taken out of context and we are not taking it lightly because it is creating a wrong impression. Choppies is one of the pioneers of plastic money usage and this is a very good and convenient way of transacting for customers. In all our outlets here and in the region we use plastic money and for a long time we have been giving cash back, said Mr Mphoko. We will not be deterred by this negative publicity because we are committed to assisting development of our country. As it is plans are underway to open a 32nd shop in Harare before the end of the year. Choppies Zimbabwe is a subsidiary of the Botswana-listed regional giant, which is also listed on the JSE.