Mr Clemence Kunzekweguta (left), who was the guest of honour congratulates Florence Ncube who was named the best Grade Two pupil during a speech and prize giving day ceremony at Magama Primary School in Ntulani Village, Tsholotsho South, while the headmaster Mr Victor Malaba looks on. The seven-year-old girl had a school fees problem with her parents failing to pay her $20 termly fees over the past two years resulting in a well wisher coming to the brilliant kid s rescue, according to school authoritiesSukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent THE Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education has been urged to enforce its policy that prohibits schools authorities from chasing away pupils for non- payment of school fees. Speaking at the Matabeleland South Provincial Merit awards ceremony at Usher Institute in Bulilima on Friday, Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries president Mr Busisa Moyo said some children were being deprived of their constitutional right to education.The Ministry has in the past warned schools against sending pupils home for non-payment of fees but school authorities remain defiant. Education is a basic right for every Zimbabwean child. Government policy on fees is therefore meant to ensure learners attend school without disruption. Those parents with arrears have to be dealt with by the law instead of punishing innocent children, said Mr MoyoHe said the Science and Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) initiative was key to reviving the country s industry which was fast dwindling.He said the country needs skilled graduates to make industry productive once again. We are not doing any justice if universities churn out unskilled graduates. As we speak a number of graduates are unemployed. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education has introduced a new curriculum which emphasises on STEAM subjects. This is the appropriate initiative to ensure that graduates become productive, he said.Mr Moyo urged schools to embrace the STEAM initiative to ensure that pupils are not short- changed.He said there was a need for the country s education system to be upgraded to meet global educational standards.Mr Moyo said pupils must not use their background as an excuse for failure. Your attitude towards learning will determine your future. Talent is unlocked through self application and your teachers can only take you to a certain point and you have to play your part. Go an extra mile and don t be content with average performance, he said.Speaking at the same event, Matabeleland South Provincial Education Director, Mrs Tumisang Thabela said they had combined the STEAM and merit awards to celebrate pupils innovations and achievements.She said this year s theme was Embracing the new curriculum through STEAM.She said the Ministry had introduced Arts a fifth component to the STEM acronym to make the new acronym STEAM. @DubeMatutu.