Kalusha Bwalyaa Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter TITLE chasing Highlanders are planning to invite African football icon Zambian Kalusha Bwalya as guest of honour at the club’s end of year awards ceremony set for December 2. Bwalya is also the former Football Association of Zambia (FAZ) president and boasts of an African Nations Cup medal as association president. Highlanders’ chief executive officer Ndumiso Gumede said the club was looking at a high profile sports personality to grace “our awards night” although he declined to name the personality. However, Bosso sources said the personality Gumede declined to reveal is the Zambian legend. In the event that they failed to get the sports personality “from Southern Africa”, Gumede said they would turn to an outstanding local business personality to be the guest of honour. “We have made overtures to our potential guest of honour, but at the moment we have not finalised anything. We are looking at a high profile sports personality or an outstanding business personality,” said Gumede. There will be 15 categories at the awards ceremony, which will include a Supporter of the Year for the first time. “For the Supporter of the Year, we are looking at someone who has always been there for the club; someone who you can also find at training and matches,” said Gumede. Besides the usual awards, the club has also introduced the Supporters’ Player of the Year, while life member and former vice-chairman Sikhanyiso Moyo has promised to honour the club’s longest serving player with an unbroken 10 year service to Bosso, Erick Mudzingwa. Mudzingwa has been with Highlanders since 2006 and players that achieve such a milestone in other countries have testimonial matches in their honour. Other awards include Player of the Season, Outstanding Newcomer, Most Promising Player, Most Disciplined Player, Top Goal Scorer, likely to go to Tanzania-based Bruce Kangwa, scorer of the most spectacular goal or goals, Goalkeeper of the Season, Players’ Player of the Year, Captain’s Award, Most Consistent Player, Most Improved Player and Best Junior from Division One. “Our manager Vezigama Dlodlo is compiling statistics to find out the player with the most number of minutes on the field to determine the recipient for the Most Consistent Player. As for the Supporters’ Player of the Year, our members will pick up a nomination form, which costs $1 each and come up with their choice. The forms must be in our offices by November 25,” said Gumede. He said a table for 10 people on the awards night will be going for $400, while an individual chair will cost $50. — @skhumoyo2000.