Grace Chingoma, Harare Bureau CAPS United skipper Moses Muchenje has called for a united front from the Green Machine as they try to clear one of their toughest hurdles on Sunday in their quest to win the Castle Lager Premiership title for the first time in 11 years. Muchenje yesterday said they need to sing from the same hymn book- from the executive right up to the supporters &#8211; so that they avoid any slip-ups.The Green Machine host Dynamos in the latest Harare Derby at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday. This is the time we need each other the most, the supporters, the executive and even the players and concentration is important at this stage so that we don t have any slip-ups or any other disturbances, said Muchenje. From the pre-season in Mozambique, it was one of the objectives to get the championship and I am happy we are now at the top and we are looking forward to winning it. It was difficult, we had some games which we nearly failed to fulfil but we told ourselves that we have to be champions no matter how hard it is and I am happy we are on top of the league. He said they need to beat DeMbare on Sunday. The fact that we are now in the driving seat and at the top, we don t want to lose points and we are hoping for the best, said Muchenje. Our team is a great team. We have a good squad, I think we will come good on Sunday. Although Caps United will be without the duo of Leonard Tsipa and Phineas Bamusi following their suspensions, they have been boosted by goalkeeper Edmore Zikeeper Sibanda s return to training.His last match was a Chibuku Super Cup first round match against Tsholotsho.Vice-skipper Stephen Makatuka also back while exciting midfielder Tafadzwa Rusike, who returned to action last weekend and capped his cameo appearance with a goal at Dulivhadzimu, is relishing playing in the Derby.Rusike missed the reverse fixture through injury.The former Dynamos midfielder said he is itching to reclaim his place in the first team. I wasn t happy to be on the sidelines but I am happy now and trying to get back into the first 11. In the last match, I played 20 minutes. It wasn t bad, I played very well. Even in training, I am doing very well and no longer feeling any pain. It is not going to be easy, it is a derby, a big game. People are saying Dynamos are not doing very well but I don t believe that, to us they remain Dynamos and dangerous. But we are not concentrating on them and we are working on ourselves and try win the game, said Rusike.The former Ajax Cape Town midfielder doesn t believe there would be any added pressure on them going into the match a day after rivals FC Platinum would have played. We don t have pressure and we are not looking at what our opponents are doing, if we win our games, we will win the league, said Rusike. Caps United have hiked the gate charges for the Derby with the cheapest ticket going for $5, while the upper grand stand will be $10 and VIP guests will have to fork out $15.&nbsp;