Jurgen KloppCape Town As Liverpool prepare to face Manchester United in the eagerly-awaited first meeting of these two great rivals this season, both clubs have issued a joint statement to their supporters. The sides come face to face at Anfield on Monday evening (21:00 SA time) with the Reds in fourth place with 16 points ahead of United in sixth place just three points worse off.And with a history of discriminatory behaviour from a section of supporters, the two sides have appealed for this to become a thing of the past.The joint statement read: Both clubs, their supporters and football fans around the world are looking forward to this historic and passionate match between two of the sport s biggest and oldest rivals. There is great rivalry between our fans and we ask all supporters to be respectful and help eradicate all forms of offensive and discriminatory behaviour from the game. If any supporters are found to be engaged in any form of offensive or discriminatory behaviour by stewards or via CCTV then they will be immediately removed from the stadium, risk arrest, prosecution and be reported in accordance with the club s ground regulations. This is an unrivalled fixture in the Premier League calendar and we thank all fans for their continued support in this important area of the game. Meanwhile, Liverpool have introduced an academy wage cap to ensure their young players are not given too much money, according to the Daily Telegraph.The newspaper reports that Liverpool have adopted an approach to not pay 17-year-old first-season professionals more than 40,000 in basic salary, although that figure could increase with bonuses for appearances in the under-23 side and success while on loan in the lower divisions. Liverpool reportedly believe the shift will help those who want a route to the first team more than players who seek to earn large amount of money in their teenage years.The Telegraph said the Premier League would welcome the cap, with Southampton and Tottenham Hotspur other clubs who have enforced a similar policy.Manager Jurgen Klopp says there is a clear pathway to his senior squad, with the former Borussia Dortmund boss keen to use those within the youth ranks rather than signing players with a similar level of ability. I ve always been at clubs for the long-term so when I see a 16-year-old player who is good, I can always wait for him, Klopp said. I can promise that before we sign a player who isn t a lot better than what we already have, we will always use our own boys. That s how the future should be, even in the crazy football transfer world. We want to be this special club. That s why I am really interested in the talent groups and all these boys. We have created a situation where all these boys see a real perspective.That s very important. They need to know that there is a way through. - Sport24/ESPNFC.FixturesSaturdayChelsea v Leicester City, 13:30,Stoke City v Sunderland, 16:00,Arsenal v Swansea City, 16:00Manchester City v Everton, 16:00West Bromwich Albion v Tottenham Hotspur, 16:00, Bournemouth v Hull City, 16:00Crystal Palace v West Ham United, 18:30SundayMiddlesbrough v Watford, 14:30Southampton v Burnley, 17:00MondayLiverpool v Manchester United, 21:00&nbsp;